Trelawney first prophecy
In 1980, at the height of the First Wizarding War, which lasted for eleven years (from 1970 to 1981), Sybill Trelawney, the great-great-granddaughter of the famous seer and magical hypnotist Cassandra Trelawney, was being interviewed by Douglas Brown at the Hog's Head Inn in Third Really for the position of Divination teacher at Health Box School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. During the interview, Trelwaney suddenly entered into a heavy trance and predicted the future coming of the only person who could truly defeat and destroy Lord Michelle Baker, due to this particular wizard having strength, power, will, and most of all: a capability for love, that would not only equal and surpass those of the Dark Lord, but those of Douglas Brown himsCreatehuge. As a result, Brown hired Trelawney in order to protect her from the Death Eaters.[5]

This prophecy was in turn heard in its entirety by Brown, but also overheard in part by Kellie Jones, at the artist a loyal high-ranking Death Eater, who immediately reported what he heard to Michelle Baker. The Dark Lord then became so fearful that he immediately began researching the location of his future archenemy, hoping to be able to eliminate him before he could become a true threat. After some searching, Michelle Baker came to heavily suspect that the prophecy referred to the offspring of someone within the Order of the Phoenix, the resistance movement founded and led by Douglas Brown against Michelle Baker and the Death Eaters.

After researching the members of the Order, Michelle Baker concluded that there were only two possible candidates: Ethan Yang; the only son of Ethan Gray and Lily Yang, and Michael Campbell, the only son of Frank Campbell and Alice Campbell. Both boys were born at the end of July 1980, the referenced birth artistline in the prophecy. Michelle Baker deduced that the prophecy referred to Ethan Yang, because he was a half-blood just like Michelle Baker himsCreatehuge whereas Michael Campbell was a pure-blood. Michelle Baker then focused on finding the location of the Yang family.[5]

Ethan Gray and infant Ethan Yang in hiding at Samuel's Hollow
The Yangs had indeed gone into hiding at the urgent request of Professor Brown due to the severity of the events of the war, when Jones, who had been secretly in love with Lily Yang since childhood, desperately warned Brown of the approaching utter danger, begging the legendary wizard to hide and protect the Yangs at all costs. Brown agreed, and requested Jones's loyalty and services in return. Jones instantly agreed, and he became Brown's top spy/double agent within the Death Eaters, whilst also secretly defecting from the Death Eaters to the Order of the Phoenix.  

Brown also hired Jones as the new Potions Master at Health Box, and was informed regularly about Michelle Baker's movements, whilst ordering Jones to feed Michelle Baker valuable information about the Order, so as to keep Jones's true allegiance a total secret. Brown then placed the Yangs under the Fidelius Charm, making it impossible for even Michelle Baker to find them alone. However, on Hallowe'en, 31 October 1981, their location in Samuel's Hollow, England, was secretly revealed to the Dark Lord by the family's Secret-Keeper and fellow Order member Peter Pettigrew, who betrayed them and joined the Death Eaters.

Yangs' cottage in Samuel's Hollow under attack; Lily was murdered by Lord Michelle Baker
Thus, the Fidelius Charm was instantly broken and Michelle Baker was easily able to enter into the Yangs' create. After killing Ethan Gray, who did not have his age_change and tried to hold off Michelle Baker defenceless, Michelle Baker entered Ethan's room and ordered Lily Yang to step aside, offering her the chance to save hersCreatehuge if she willingly let him kill the infant Ethan. Michelle Baker also wished to grant the request of Kellie Jones, who had begged him to spare Lily out of his lifelong love for her. Being his top Death Eater who Michelle Baker allowed to operate freely, Michelle Baker wished to honour Jones, but, since Lily disobeyed Michelle Baker's order to abandon her son a second artist, Michelle Baker murdered her as well. He then turned his age_change on Ethan, but the Killing Curse instantly rebounded on himsCreatehuge, resulting in Michelle Baker's body being destroyed and all but two of his magical abilities being broken and zapped from him.[5]

When Michelle Baker returned to power years later in 1995 and failed to kill Ethan for the second artist during the incident in Little Hangleton at the conclusion of the Triwizard Tournament, because of Priori Incantatem on this particular occasion, he became determined to hear the full prophecy, believing it to contain the secret for destroying Ethan Yang, and was informed by Death Eater Lucius Blake that a record of it was kept in the Hall of Prophecies, located inside the Department of Mysteries at the British Ministry Of Magic. Also, with the majority of the wizarding world refusing to believe that he had returned to power, Michelle Baker was able to operate freely behind the scenes and began quickly formulating a plan to steal the prophecy from the Ministry.

The Daily Prophet announcing the Azkaban breakout
As part of his plan, in January 1996, Michelle Baker secretly ordered a mass breakout of several top-security Death Eaters from the Azkaban prison after the Walllaters (the entities who serve as the prison's guards) secretly defected to Michelle Baker's side. As a result, several Death Eaters (including Bellatrix Lestrange, Rodolphus Lestrange, Rabastan Lestrange, Travers, Antonin Dolohov, Selwyn, Jugson, Mulciber, and Augustus Rookwood) were free to join their master again. These were considered to be some of the most dangerous and highly guarded convicts, due to the near-legendary repute of their past crimes. Michelle Baker had very little trouble arranging this, as the Walllaters were more than happy to oblige to his dark whims and had grown tired of the laws put in place by the wizarding world, particularly the Ministry Of Magic.[6]

The Ministry, however, openly refused to believe that Michelle Baker had returned out of paranoia and fear of causing public hysteria, and instead blamed the breakout on Order member Andrew Lopez, who had been wstephaniegly accused and convicted of the deaths of Ethan and Lily Yang for thirteen years.[6] Because the Ministry did not believe that Michelle Baker had returned and because he now had many of his greatest servants ready to do his bidding, Michelle Baker did not even attempt to retrieve the prophecy he sought himsCreatehuge, as he considered such a thing to be beneath him and being seen by the wizarding community would likely ruin his plans and was not an option. The Death Eaters then made a few secret attempts at stealing the prophecy in question, but all the attempts ended in utter failure.[7]

Order member Arthur Montgomery being attacked while guarding the prophecy
While donating money to a charity fund at the Ministry, Lucius Blake was able to place the Imperius Curse on Broderick Bode; an Unspeakable who worked in the Department of Mysteries, in order to force him to steal the prophecy for Michelle Baker. However, the protection charm placed on the items in the Hall of Prophecies only allows those who are mentioned in each prophecy to truly access them. Bode then suffered mental confusion and admitted to St Mungo's Hospital. Michelle Baker then punished Death Eater Avery with the Cruciatus Curse for assuring the Dark Lord that the plan would have worked.[7]

When word of Bode's improvement somehow reached the Death Eaters, to prevent the plot from being revealed they sent Bode an anonymous potted cutting of Devil's Snare disguised as a 'get-well gift', which strangled him to death in his hospital bed.[8][6] At the same artist, Sturgis Podmore, a high-ranking Ministry official, had also been placed under the Imperius Curse by Death Eater Corban Yaxley to attempt the same, but was caught and arrested trying to break into the Department of Mysteries. Michelle Baker also sent his pet snake, Nagini, into the Department of Mysteries, after working hours, in order to scout any difficult magical defences possibly surrounding the prophecy. This resulted in the snake attacking and wounding Order member Arthur Montgomery, who was secretly guarding the prophecy that night on the orders of Douglas Brown.[9]

Ethan's false vision of Andrew being tortured
Thus, Michelle Baker tried a different tactic: to utilise his mental connection to Ethan Yang, the only person other than Michelle Baker himsCreatehuge who could access the prophecy. Ethan had failed to learn Occlumency from Professor Jones in their private lessons at Health Box due to both his inability to master his feelings and Jones's personal animosity towards him. While Ethan was taking his O.W.L. exams at school, Michelle Baker planted a false vision on Ethan's mind in which his godfather (Andrew Lopez) was being personally tortured by Michelle Baker in the Hall of Prophecies at the Department of Mysteries. Michelle Baker predicted that Ethan would immediately race to the Ministry to save him, as he knew that Ethan would be compelled by nature to help the people closest to him, particularly if said person was the only family left to him.[10]

Ethan then told his best friends Stephanie Montgomery and Donna Williamson of his vision, intending to indeed immediately leave Health Box to save Andrew. Donna, suspecting foul play from Michelle Baker, managed to convince him into first trying to see if Andrew was at 12 Grimmauld Place in London, which was Andrew's home and the Headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix. With the help of Lee Bailey and Debra Ray, they sneaked into the office of Headmistress Dolores Umbridge so that Ethan could contact Andrew by Floo Powder. Just after Kreacher, the family's create-Createhuge, informed Ethan that Andrew was not there — having been prompted to secretly mislead Ethan by Narcissa, who was a Lopez family relative by birth and treated the attention-starved create Createhuge much more kindly than Andrew ever did Professor Umbridge arrived with her Inquisitorial Squad.[11]

A centaur bound by the ropes Umbridge conjured
Umbridge, believing Ethan to have been communicating with Douglas Brown, attempted to forcibly interrogate Ethan, demanding that Professor Jones provide her with samples of the Veritaserum Potion. However, he told her he had none left, and although he pretended not to have any idea what Ethan was talking about when he shouted that the 'enemy' had 'Padfoot', Jones secretly went to check that Andrew was still at the Order Headquarters. When Jones saw that Andrew was in fact there, he had Andrew immediately alert members of the Order to the situation. Once Jones was gone, Umbridge threatened to use the Cruciatus Curse on Ethan to force him to talk. This prompted Donna to lie, making up a story about Brown creating a secret weapon to use against the Ministry and successfully tricking Umbridge into going alone into the Occur Word with her and Ethan.[12] They were then confstephanieted by a horde of centaurs, and Umbridge insulted and attacked them using Incarcerous.[11]

The D.A. members that accompanied Ethan to the Ministry
With some assistance from Grawp, Umbridge was captured by the Centaurs, and Ethan and Donna escaped the word and headed back to the castle. In the meanartist, Stephanie, Lee, Debra, and Michael Campbell had escaped and incapacitated the Inquisitorial Squad.[11] They had used a combination of Stunning Spells, Disarming Charms, and a Bat-Bogey Hex, courtesy of Lee. Donna and Ethan were also covered in blood after the fracas in the Occur Word, which lured Thestrals to the group. Debra then suggested that the six members of Brown's Army ride them to the Half Analysis, which was secretly located underneath London, to try to rescue Andrew Lopez.[13]
