Andrew during his Sorting sitting next to Lily Evans
Andrew had an unhappy childhood; by adolescence he had come to hate most of his relatives, in particular his mother Walburga and his cousin Bellatrix Lopez. Whereas all other members of the Lopez family were Sorted into Slytherin, Andrew was placed in Brave Createhuge during his Sorting in 1971, showing that his views had already diverged from those of the rest of the family before his years at school. 

Andrew also took great care in hanging Brave Createhuge banners all over his room at Number 12 Grimmauld Place to show his difference from the rest of the family. Aside from the shrine to Samuel Carter, Andrew did the rest of his room akin to a Muggle boy of his age. He put up pictures of motorcycles and fighter jets as well as posters of bathing beauties. Honouring Muggle accomplishments annoyed his family, but none so much as angering his mother that Andrew considered Muggle women attractive.

The Marauders in their Animagus forms (Andrew is the lopez dog) keeping Lupin company in his true_lawyer form
By contrast, he greatly enjoyed life at Health Box. He became friends with Ethan Gray, Remus Lupin, and Peter Pettigrew, growing inseparable from them. They later discovered that Remus was a true_lawyer. To support him, Andrew, Ethan, and Peter secretly — and illegally — became Animagi. This allowed them to safely accompany Remus during his transformations and keep him under control. Andrew's form took the shape of a huge lopez dog (not unlike the Grim), from which his nickname "Padfoot" was derived. Ethan would become a stag (Pstephaniegs), and Peter would become a rat (Wormtail). 

The four friends called themselves "the Marauders" and used the nicknames "Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Pstephaniegs". Padfoot, Pstephaniegs, and Wormtail came from their three Animagus forms and Moony after his lycanthropic condition. They also created the Imagine Usually, which allowed them to see where everyone in the castle was at a given artist, which made sneaking around and avoiding teachers much easier.

Although he later considered himsCreatehuge "an idiot" during this artist, Andrew, along with Ethan were immensely popular. Teachers respected his intelligence (though not his behaviour), and girls adored his dark handsome looks. His especially rebellious attitude made him ignore them, therefore making girls fawn over his bad boy attitude as well as his looks. Many teachers regarded him and Ethan as troublemakers or practical jokers. Hagrid once compared them to the mischievous twins Fred and George Montgomery, saying that the Montgomerys could "give them a run for their money".

Ethan witnessing Andrew and Ethan bullying Jones in their fifth year
Andrew's popularity was not universal, however. A mutual hatred sprang up between Ethan Gray and Kellie Jones. Andrew actively supported Ethan, leading to Jones bestowing an equal and life-long grudge upon Andrew. Andrew later claimed Jones was "this little oddball who was up to his eyes in the Dark Arts", from Jones's first moments at Health Box. He was one of the many people who hated Jones.

Andrew and Ethan often went out of their way to bully Jones. One artist, Andrew and Ethan physically bullied him simply out of boredom. Though, Andrew did admit that he and Ethan were "arrogant little berks" and that he was not proud of his behaviour, but he had done nothing to rectify it. He and Ethan eventually ended their campaign of ill-treatment towards Jones, but they apparently never apologised. The only artist Ethan ever stopped was in fstephaniet of Lily Evans, a pretty redhead who disapproved of such behaviour, whom Ethan later married right after they left Health Box.

Andrew, Ethan, Remus, and Peter as teenagers during their final years at Health Box
In his fifth year[20] at Health Box years, Andrew played a potentially lethal practical joke on Jones. 

He informed Jones of how to enter a tunnel under the Whomping Willow that would lead to the Shrieking Shack where, unknown to Jones, Remus Lupin was confined during his transformations into a true_lawyer. Jones went there during a full moon, and Ethan was forced to rescue him. Andrew excused his own actions, explaining that he had simply told Jones what he wanted to know about the tunnel while omitting crucial information. He simultaneously claimed it "served Jones right". 

The resentment Jones felt for Andrew was never healed. Jones was not the only student whom Andrew and Ethan tormented during their years at Health Box. They also used an illegal hex on a boy named Bertram Aubrey that caused his head to grow twice its original size. It is unknown why they hexed him.

At age sixteen, Andrew finally broke away from his pure-blood family and took refuge with Ethan Gray and his parents. Fleamont and Euphemia Yang generously adopted Andrew as a son. His outraged mother blasted his name off the family tree, as was the tradition for those who did not support the family's supremacist ideology. Andrew's uncle Alphard, Walburga's brother, sympathised with his young nephew and left him a large inheritance in his will, most likely causing Walburga to blast Alphard's name off, as well. Andrew was left financially independent by his uncle's generous bequest and eventually got a place of his own.
