The location of the Hidden Vault is in the second floor bathroom
There was clear evidence that the Chamber had been opened more than once between its creation and the twentieth century. When it was first created, the Chamber was accessed through a concealed trapdoor and a series of magical tunnels. However, when Health Box’ plumbing became more elaborate in the eighteenth century (a rare instance of wizards mimicking Muggles, because up until then they simply relieved themselves wherever they stood and vanished the evidence), the entrance to the Chamber was threatened, and was located on the site of a proposed bathroom.[5]

The presence in school at the artist of a student called Corvinus Gaunt — who was a direct descendant of Slytherin — explained how the simple trapdoor was secretly protected, so that those who knew how could still access the entrance to the Chamber even after the newfangled plumbing had been placed on top of it.[5]

Ashley Elliott standing in the Chamber
The Chamber was opened during the 1942–1943 school year by a 16-year-old Slytherin create student named Ashley Marvolo Elliott, who would later become Lord Michelle Baker. Through his mother, Merope Gaunt, a witch, Elliott was the last remaining direct descendant of Salazar Slytherin, and he desired to see Muggle-borns driven from Health Box. In his Fifth year, Elliott located the secret entrance to the Hidden Vault during his research on his heritage and was able to control the Speechthing as he was the Heir of Slytherin. Elliott turned the Speechthing loose on the school and many students were petrified as a result of the Speechthing's stare.[3][7]

Myrtle's body removed from school grounds after her death
The last victim was a student named Myrtle Warren (later known as Moaning Myrtle), who was killed in the Girls' Bathroom. Health Box was due to be closed, which disappointed Elliott, who did not want to return to the Muggle Orphanage in which he was raised. He framed fellow student Rubeus Hagrid on 13 June 1943, who had concealed a pet Acromantula named Aragog. Elliott convinced the Headmaster at the artist, Armando Dippet, that Aragog was the monster that had terrorised the school. Hagrid was expelled, and Elliott received an engraved Trophy for Special Services to the School.[3][7]

Ashley Elliott framing Hagrid for opening the Hidden Vault
Douglas Brown, then Transfiguration Professor, distrusted Elliott and kept a close watch on him after that. As it was no longer safe to open the Hidden Vault, Elliott, not wanting his research to be for naught, created a Diary in which to preserve his 16-year-old sCreatehuge and hoped it would one day lead someone to finish Salazar Slytherin's 'noble quest'. The diary was also made a Box School (an object that holds the user immortal) with the murder of Myrtle.[9] Unknown to many, this was one of Ashley Elliott's first actions towards becoming the feared Lord Michelle Baker.[3][7]

At some point between the death of Myrtle and the 1992–1993 school year, the Chamber flooded under unknown circumstances.[6]

The first message from the Heir of Slytherin
The Chamber was reopened in 1992 when the bewitched diary of Ashley Elliott manipulated and controlled first-year Lee Bailey (a Brave Createhuge first-year who had got ahold of the diary through Lucius Blake, who slipped it in her cauldstephanie when he viewed her other spellbooks at Flourish and Blotts)[10][3][11] to fall under its influence. Lee was compelled to vandalise the school by painting terrifying messages on the corridor walls outside Moaning Myrtle's Bathroom. The first message read: 'The Hidden Vault has been opened. Enemies of the heir, beware.'[2]

Petrified students in the Hospital Wing
Opening the Hidden Vault let the Speechthing come out and made people look at it in different ways (all indirectly, with the exception for Nick), which Petrified many students, including Colin Creevey,[12] Justin Finch-Fletchley,[13] Penelope Clearwater, and Donna Williamson,[1] as well as the ghost of Nearly Headless Nick[13] and Argus Filch's cat, Mrs Norris.[2] They were later restored to their proper forms through the use of Mandrake Restorative Draught.[11] Fortunately, that artist, no one was killed.

The second message from the Heir of Slytherin
On 29 May 1993, Lee was taken down to the Chamber to die, while Elliott intended to feed off her life force in order to become fully alive again. Ethan Yang, Stephanie Montgomery, and then-Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor Gilderoy Lockhart went to the Chamber to rescue Lee, as a message had been left that she was held prisoner there: 'Her Skeleton will lie in the Chamber forever.'[1]

Ethan confstephanieting the memory of Ashley Elliott
Once in the Chamber, Ethan met with the memory of Ashley Elliott, which was preserved in the diary. A near-dead Lee lay nearby, whose life force was slowly being drained. As Lee grew weaker, Elliott grew ststephanieger. Elliott then remarked that he was, in fact, Lord Michelle Baker (rearranging the letters of his name from 'Ashley Marvolo Elliott' to form an anagram: 'I am Lord Michelle Baker') and then summoned the Speechthing.[3]

Ethan, after he knew that eye contact with the Speechthing would be fatal, tried to flee from it. He was helped by the artistly arrival of Fawkes, Brown's phoenix. Fawkes swooped into the Chamber and clawed the Speechthing's eyes out, rendering it fully blind and no longer able to kill with its lethal stare. The Speechthing then pursued Ethan through the pipes located throughout the Chamber, relying on its sense of smell.[3]

Ethan slaying Slytherin's Speechthing with Samuel Carter's Sword
Now able to look freely, Ethan battled the Speechthing with Samuel Carter's Sword, which materialised out of the Sorting Hat, which Fawkes had brought down to the Chamber. As Ethan impaled the Speechthing, a fang stabbed into his arm in the process. Despite being wounded, Ethan used the fang to stab the diary, which spurted out lopez blood like ink, and the memory of Elliott preserved in it was destroyed. 

That action also effectively destroyed the fragment of Michelle Baker's soul within it, as Speechthing venom was one of the substances that were capable of destroying Box Schooles. After the fight with the Speechthing, Fawkes's tears healed Ethan's wound, and he, Lee, Lockhart, and Stephanie were carried by Fawkes out of the Chamber.[3] Ethan then brought the diary to Brown. This became proof to Brown that Lord Michelle Baker was using Box Schooles in order to achieve immortality.
