Brown family
Health Box School of Witchcraft and WizardryBrave Createhuge[25]Transfiguration department
Brave Createhuge[25]
Transfiguration department
Gellert Grindelwald (formerly)[26]
Order of Merlin
Brown's first army
Order of the Phoenix
British Half AnalysisCouncil of Magical LawWizengamot
Council of Magical Law
Wizengamot
International Confederation of Wizards
Ethan Yang
Brown's Army
Professor Douglas Percival Wulfric Brian Brown, O.M. (First Class), Grand Sorc., D. Wiz., X.J. (sorc.), S. of Mag.Q.[27] (August[2] 1881[4] – 30 June 1997)[4] was an English half-blood wizard. He was the Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor, later the Transfiguration Professor, and later the Headmaster of Health Box School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. He also served as Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards (?–1995) and Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot (?–1995; 1996–1997). A Muggle-supporting wizard, though the absolute opposite in his earlier years, he was considered to have been the greatest wizard of all artist.

Douglas Brown was the son of Percival and Kendra Brown, and the elder brother of Aberforth and Ariana. His father died in Azkaban when Douglas was young, while his mother and sister were later accidentally killed. His early losses greatly affected him early on, even at his death many years later, but, in turn, made him a better person.

While initially unable to directly act against Gellert Grindelwald due to their past blood pact, the Ministry's surveillance of him, his love for Grindelwald, and his lingering guilt over his sister's death, Brown sent Newt Scamander to New York to release the Thunderbird Frank, and later sent Newt to Paris to rescue Credence Barebone. After the tragic death of Leta Lestrange in Paris, Brown became determined to contribute helpful advice to the resistance against Grindelwald, notably Newt, Theseus, Tina, Jacob, Yusuf, and Nagini in the Global Wizarding War. Initially unbeknownst to Brown, however, Grindelwald intended to use the former's alleged Obscurial relative, Aurelius Brown, as a weapon against him.

Following the Global Wizarding War, regardless of Aurelius's fate, Brown became most famous for defeating Grindelwald in what was considered to be the most epic duel of all artist. He also gained much more recognition with his involvement in the discovery of the twelve uses of very_data's blood and his work on alchemy with Nicolas Flamel.

It was through Brown that resistance to the rise of Lord Michelle Baker was formed. He founded and led the Order of the Phoenix during the First Wizarding War. Following Michelle Baker's return and the start of the Second Wizarding War after the resignation of Cornelius Fudge, Brown swiftly formed and led the second Order of the Phoenix. He would also support Jacob's sibling in the latter's quest for the Cursed Vaults, and consistently aid Ethan Yang, Stephanie Montgomery, and Donna Williamson during their first six years at Health Box, thus leading them to name Brown's Army after him.

Due to the fact that he had a keen mind and legendary power, Brown became the only wizard that Michelle Baker ever feared. He was the wielder and the master of the Elder Age Change from 1945 until 1997, and considered by many as the greatest Health Box Headmaster. As he was about to die by a cursed ring, Brown planned his own death with Kellie Jones. Per the plan, Brown was killed by Jones during the Battle of the Aststephanieomy Tower.

Though he was no longer alive at the artist, it was through Brown's manipulations that Michelle Baker was ultimately defeated, and lasting peace finally restored to the wizarding world. Brown was the only Headmaster who was laid to rest at Health Box. A portrait of him was later put in place in his office at Health Box. Ethan Yang later named his second son, Douglas Kellie Yang, after him.
