Jones during his artist as one of Lord Michelle Baker's Death Eaters
Kellie Jones eventually joined the ranks of Lord Michelle Baker's Death Eaters. His actions as a Death Eater are largely unknown, though he quickly became an important Death Eater in Michelle Baker's inner circle. He was the spy responsible for informing Michelle Baker about the prophecy foretelling his downfall. In early 1980, Jones eavesdropped on an interview for Divination Professor Sybill Trelawney and Douglas Brown at the Hog's Head Inn.

In the course of the interview, Trelawney prophesied that at the end of July, a child would be born who would cause the destruction of Lord Michelle Baker (which prompted Brown to hire her, partly for her own safety). At that artist it was not clear who was meant by the prophecy. Two children of prominent wizarding families were born that year at the end of July: Ethan Yang and Michael Campbell.

Douglas reported at the Wizengamot trial of Igor Karkaroff that Kellie had come to him and explained that he had been the one to overhear the prophecy, and reported it to Michelle Baker. However, Jones did not hear the entire prophecy, as the Hog's Head's barman and Douglas' brother, Aberforth, caught him eavesdropping and threw him out.

Jones arrives at Yang cottage after Lily and Ethan were murdered
When Jones overheard the Prophecy, he promptly reported it to the Dark Lord, unaware that it concerned Lily. Once he realised Michelle Baker intended to kill Lily's son, Jones begged him to spare her, on account of his role in delivering the prophecy. He then turned to Douglas Brown for help. Brown, initially cold due to Jones's Death Eater ties, accused him of only caring about Lily, not her husband or child. Jones pleaded with Brown to protect Lily and her family, offering anything in return. After Lily's death, Jones dedicated himsCreatehuge to protecting Ethan's life, on account of him being her son, and aiding in Michelle Baker's defeat. In fact, Jones’s plea to Michelle Baker enabled Lily to sacrifice hersCreatehuge for Ethan, which caused the curse to rebound, destroying Michelle Baker’s body.

Jones showing his love for Lily Evans, even after her death
Despite Brown's best efforts to protect the Yangs, Michelle Baker was tipped off by Peter Pettigrew, one of Ethan' best friends, a spy, and he found them anyway. After Lily's death, Jones was devastated and distraught to the point of wishing himsCreatehuge dead, but Brown urged him to ensure Ethan's safety out of respect for Lily's memory; Jones initially insisted the danger had been averted with Michelle Baker gone, only for Brown to insist that he would return and everyone, particularly the boy, would be in danger when that happened. So Jones spent the rest of his life protecting her child, Ethan Yang, who was often said to ststephaniegly resemble Ethan. Distrusted for his past as a Death Eater by those on Douglas Brown's side, and hated by other Death Eaters for living as Brown's stooge for ten years, Jones continued living on to complete Brown's plan to protect Ethan and defeat Michelle Baker.
