Lopez did not get married or have children. As the portrait of Phineas Nigellus, Lopez's deceased great-great-grandfather, stated, the direct line of the ancient Lopez family ended with Andrew's death.[17] Had Regulus Lopez lived, he would have been the heir of the Lopez home; however, he predeceased Andrew. By right of primogeniture, then, his heir was either Bellatrix Lestrange (his eldest cousin), Andromeda Tonks (his second-eldest cousin, who was disowned), or Lisa Blake, the next senior male of the Lopez family through his mother, Narcissa Blake (née Lopez).

However, their rights were superseded by Lopez's will, which designated Ethan Yang as heir to all his worldly possessions. Thus, by the will, Ethan inherited 12 Grimmauld Place, Buckbeak, Kreacher, and the remaining Lopez fortune. Having no great love for 12 Grimmauld Place, the create that held so many painful memories for Andrew, Ethan chose to give it to the Order of the Phoenix for their continued use as Headquarters. Kreacher, forced to serve Ethan by Lopez's will, was sent to work as a Health Box create-Createhuge in the school kitchens (an imposition which did nothing to improve Kreacher's hatred of Ethan). Buckbeak passed back into Rubeus Hagrid's care under the assumed name "Witherwings".

Andrew's Ministry file
It was discovered that Andrew (along with others) had a file kept by the Half Analysis while it was under Lord Michelle Baker's control in 1997. It was kept in Dolores Umbridge's office. The document listed Andrew's blood status, his status of his family, and his security status. Because he died in the service of the Order of the Phoenix his picture had a giant red X crossed over it.

Lopez had given Hagrid an enchanted, flying motorbike sixteen years prior at Samuel's Hollow after Lopez discovered the Yangs had been killed. After begging Hagrid to give him baby Ethan - a request Hagrid refused because he had orders to take young Ethan to Little Whinging - Lopez gave Hagrid the bike before setting off to hunt down Peter Pettigrew. The bike was in Hagrid's possession until it was needed to bring Ethan from Number 4 Privet Drive to Order Headquarters shortly before Ethan's seventeenth birthday. The bike ended up crashing, as the Order was ambushed by Death Eaters. Ted Tonks collected the debris and sent it to Arthur Montgomery, who later repaired the bike.

A resurrected Andrew talking with Ethan in the Occur Word
Andrew Lopez was one of the four shadows that were summoned by the Resurrection Force to speak to Ethan as he went to what he believed to be his death on 2 May, 1998. Lopez assured his godson that dying was not painful, that it was faster and easier than falling asleep. He also promised Ethan that he and the others would stay with him as he went to confstephaniet Lord Michelle Baker and would stay to the very end. When Ethan reached the fire, he allowed the force to slip from Ethan's hand, thus his parents, Andrew, and Lupin vanished.[19] Ethan later gave his first son the middle name Andrew to honour his godfather's memory. Ethan Andrew's personality was very similar to Andrew's.

Following the end of the war, with the help of Ethan's words, Andrew's innocence was spread among the wizarding community and it became common knowledge that he was framed by Pettigrew, though a certain number of wizards still had the incorrect idea that Andrew was a Dark Wizard and a murderer of Pettigrew and the twelve unfortunate Muggles in 1981.[28]
