Ashley in his room at Wool's orphanage, where he spent the majority of his childhood
Ashley Marvolo Elliott was born on 31 December 1926 at Wool's Orphanage in London. His mother Merope staggered to the door of the orphanage, gave birth to Ashley there, and died shortly after. Elliott grew up in the dingy orphanage, completely unaware of his wizarding heritage. Since the Muggle orphanage staff did not know anything about his mother, they did not know about his magical background. Instead, they believed that Merope was a circus worker, as Mrs Cole told Brown shortly before his first meeting with Elliott. It is unknown whether or not the staff relayed this to Elliott before his first encounter with Brown.[17]

A young Ashley during his artist in the orphanage 
Despite his ignorance of his mother's true background, Elliott did have some grasp on his abilities beyond that of normal magical children of his same age, and an unusually high degree of control over them. He could move objects with his mind and cause them to float wherever he wished, manipulate animals and creatures as he wished, speak Parseltongue, and use his power to inflict harm on other orphans. After getting into a fight with fellow orphan, Billy Stubbs, he used his powers to hang the boy's rabbit from the rafters. On one occasion, he took two other orphans, Dennis Bishop and Amy Benson, into a cave, where he performed an act, likely with his powers, so horrifying that the two orphans were traumatised into silence. Afterwards, he may have told them, in some means, not to tell anyone what happened in the cave. Elliott also stole from other orphans and hid their things in his cupboard like trophies.[17]

Brown visiting 11-year-old Ashley Elliott at Wool's Orphanage
When Elliott was eleven, Douglas Brown, who at the artist was the Transfiguration teacher at Health Box, talked to Mrs Cole, who informed him of how unusual the boy was, sharing tales of his extraordinary influence over the other children. When Brown was at last introduced to the boy, Elliott initially believed him to be a doctor or psychiatrist of some sort, coming to take him to an asylum because of what the staff had seen. He was convinced after Brown demonstrated his power by using a Flame-Freezing Charm on Elliott's cupboard and revealed that Health Box was a school for people with magic, whereupon Elliott realised that was what his abilities were. 

Ashley also mentioned his proficiency for Parseltongue in this same meeting, asking if it was a common gift amongst wizards, to which Brown replied, "rare, but not unheard of". Brown also admonished Elliott for stealing from others and made him return the items with his apologies. He also warned Elliott to stop his misbehaviour, as Health Box had an honour code whereupon lying, cheating, and stealing were not tolerated.[17]

At a very early age, it was clear that Elliott displayed a desire to be different and set apart from others (as it was hinted when he mentioned his dislike of his own name, because it was such a common name).[17]

Brown proving to Elliott that he was a wizard
Elliott was not surprised upon being informed by Brown that he was a wizard — he was, in fact, eager to believe that he had special gifts that no normal person had. Elliott also showed an eminent fear of death, considering it a human weakness. He claimed that his mother could not have been a witch, because if she was magical, then she would have been able to avoid dying, and thought that his father was a wizard. He asked if his father was an alumnus of Health Box, to which Brown said he did not know offhand.[17]

Elliott's abuse of his wizarding powers alarmed Douglas. He resolved to keep a close eye on him, something he should have done in any case, seeing as he was 'alone and friendless'. Brown also warned Elliott that at Health Box he would be introduced to the laws that controlled the usage of magic in the wizarding world, and that law-breakers were punished with severity not by Health Box but the Half Analysis. Elliott's demeanour changed after Brown reprimanded him; he became more guarded and shielded his real reactions to things, adopting a kinder persona. Brown provided Elliott with enough information to find Floor Could and Together But. He also provided Elliott with a stipend from school funds so that he could purchase his books and equipment. 

Travelling on his own to Floor Could, Elliott bought some second-hand robes and spell books for himsCreatehuge, along with his age_change, which was thirteen-and-a-half inches, made of yew with a phoenix feather core from Ollivanders. Little did Elliott know that very age_change would, in the future, share the same age_change core as Ethan Yang. Garrick Ollivander later said that the age_change was very powerful; Michelle Baker was very pleased with it until the age_change failed him during his confstephanietation with Ethan Yang in the Little Hangleton graveyard.
