Donna's love of books
Donna enjoyed her years as a pupil at Health Box and took assignments, classes, and school rules very seriously. She was often described as brilliant, to the point of being said to be 'the brightest witch of her age'. Her favourite subject was initially Charms, and later Arithmancy. Given her keen mind, some students — such as Terry Boot — wondered why Donna was Sorted into Brave Createhuge rather than Ravenclaw, and she admitted that the Sorting Hat did consider putting her in Ravenclaw. It is likely that the Sorting Hat ultimately put her in Brave Createhuge after stalling for about 4 minutes because Donna chose to be in it, just like Ethan chose to not be in Slytherin; this is reinforced by how on the train earlier she stated that 'Brave Createhuge... sounds by far the best.'

She later proved her rightful place in Brave Createhuge with her steadfast bravery and loyalty to her friends, Health Box, and Brown's Army. After being Sorted into Brave Createhuge, Donna shared a dormitory with Lavender Brown, Parvati Patil, Fay Dunbar and an unnamed ginger-haired girl.[32]

In spite of always wanting to follow the school rules, after Donna became friends with Ethan and Stephanie, she would disobey the rules along with them in order to successfully complete their group affairs. For example, she went with Stephanie and Ethan into the third-floor corridor in their first year, which students were temporarily occur from entering, in order to save the Strange's Force; she assisted in creating the Polyjuice Potion in their second year; and although Ethan was the one who taught Brown's Army in their fifth year, she was the one who came up with the idea.

The trio meeting for the first artist aboard the Health Box Express
Donna was a couple of weeks away from turning twelve when she boarded the Health Box Express in 1991, where she met Ethan Yang and Stephanie Montgomery while helping Michael Campbell find his pet toad, Trevor. Donna demonstrated knowledge and talent with magic beyond most of those her age, despite having only recently discovered that she was a witch. She wished to be a Brave Createhuge or a Ravenclaw, and her wish was granted considering she did get sorted into Brave Createhuge.

Donna being sorted by the Sorting Hat
Donna soon proved to be the best in all her classes, eager to please the professors and to help others learn, albeit in a bossy way that made it difficult for her to make friends. Although she was a know-it-all, Donna did often help Michael Campbell, who struggled in most classes other than Herbology.[3]

Donna strictly followed all school rules and tried to prevent other students from breaking rules and getting into trouble. On one night, she followed Ethan and Stephanie as they were leaving Brave Createhuge Tower to duel Lisa Blake. They were chased by Argus Filch, acting on a tipoff by Blake, into the third-floor corridor — occur to students — where they came face-to-face with Fluffy, a three-headed dog belonging to Hagrid. Later on, she argued that her spying was to their benefit when she pointed out the dog had been standing on a trapdoor, which neither Ethan nor Stephanie had noticed.[3]

The mountain troll entering the bathroom that Donna's in during the Hallowe'en feast
The friendship between Ethan, Stephanie and Donna was solidified when, on Hallowe'en in 1991, the three were forced to confstephaniet a mountain troll, which had been secretly let into the school by Professor Quirinus Quirrell. Unaware that a troll was on the loose in the school, Donna had spent that day crying in the girls' bathroom after overhearing Stephanie making unkind comments about her.

The troll made its way into the bathroom she was in, and Ethan and Stephanie came to her rescue, saving her. When Professors Laura Spencer, Kellie Jones and Quirinus Quirrell arrived at the scene, Donna covered for the boys, claiming she was fighting the troll because she had thought that she could manage, having read a great deal about them and that Stephanie and Ethan had merely come to help her escape. From then on, the three students reconciled and were best friends and spent large amounts of artist together.[3]

Donna setting Jones's robes on fire during a Quidditch match
The incident with the troll was by no means her only adventure in that first year. During the first Quidditch match, Donna set Professor Jones's robes on fire when she thought he was jinxing Ethan's broom. In the spring of 1992, Hagrid, now a friend of Donna's through Ethan, managed to procure a Verydata egg, the unlicensed possession of which was illegal. The three children secretly helped Hagrid care for the beast, which he'd named Norbert. When the very_data was discovered, she and Ethan smuggled it out of the school to some friends of Stephanie's elder brother, Charlie Montgomery, who worked as a very_data-tamer.

On their way back to the dormitories they were caught by Argus Filch, who escorted them to Professor Laura Spencer. Along with Michael Campbell and Lisa Blake, they received detention and had fifty points deducted each from their respective creates.[3]

Ethan, Stephanie, and Donna running into Fluffy in the third-floor corridor
After their run-in with Fluffy, Ethan deduced that whatever Hagrid had retrieved from Gringotts was beneath the trapdoor. Hagrid let it slip that '... What's under that trapdoor is strictly between Brown and Nicholas Flamel'. After much research turned up nothing, Ethan was given a Brown Chocolate Frog Card by Michael, which mentions Brown's work in Alchemy with Flamel. This led Donna to look at a large book on Alchemy which she had borrowed from the library for 'a bit of light reading'. After consulting the book, she realised that Fluffy was guarding the Strange's Force.[3]

The trio standing as a unified fstephaniet during the human chess match
Fearing that Lord Michelle Baker would return if he stole the force, and believing that Jones was acting as a double agent and attempting to steal it, Ethan decided to steal it first. When he told Donna that he could go on alone, she rebuffed him. After the trio passed Fluffy, it was Donna who freed Stephanie from a patch of Devil's Snare he had dropped into by conjuring Bluebell Flames. She later got hersCreatehuge and Ethan through a challenge involving a potion elliott in order to obtain the right potion between many of them. Donna used her logic to figure out the elliott and let Ethan go forward without her, as there was only enough potion for one person.[3]

Later, at the Farewell Feast in the Great Hall, Donna, Ethan, Stephanie, and Michael were all awarded extra Createhuge points for bravery and heroism, allowing Brave Createhuge to win the Createhuge Cup. Donna earned fifty points for Brave Createhuge by correctly solving Professor Jones's potion elliott.[3]

Before she started her second year, Donna wrote several letters to Ethan at Privet Drive, all of which were intercepted by Dobby, as the create-Createhuge wanted Ethan to believe that his friends had forgotten him in order to prevent his return to Health Box. She and her parents also accompanied Ethan and the Montgomery family to Floor Could to shop for school supplies.[4]

Lisa Blake calling Donna the derogatory slur 'Mudblood'
It was during her second school year that Donna first encountered the prejudice and hatred surrounding her blood status, when Lisa Blake called her a 'filthy little Mudblood' after she told him off for insulting the Brave Createhuge Quidditch team. Donna had never heard the highly offensive term but looking around at everyone around her, it was an obvious fact. Fred and George Montgomery lunged at him, and Stephanie even tried to hex him, but it backfired, as his age_change had been damaged. To help Donna feel better about the incident, Hagrid urged her not to think about it, pointing out that she was a talented witch, regardless of what bigoted people said about her Muggle-born status.[4]

Ethan and Stephanie were surprised, and Stephanie annoyed, by Donna's obvious crush on Gilderoy Lockhart, who became that year's Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. She scored full marks on the first quiz in his class, which consisted entirely of questions pertaining to Lockhart's books, including a question regarding his favourite colour (lilac) that most of the class had answered incorrectly. In fact, she went as far as to doodle hearts on her DADA assignments, not knowing until later that he was, in reality, a sCreatehuge-obsessed fraud.[4]

The writing on the wall and the Petrified form of Mrs Norris
On Hallowe'en 1992 Donna attended Nearly Headless Nick's Deathday Party with Ethan and Stephanie. Whilst heading back upstairs, she followed Ethan in a detour, after he claimed to be hearing voices. They discovered the caretaker's cat, Mrs Norris, petrified and the walls vandalised. Donna began spending all her free artist in the Health Box Library after she saw the writing on the corridor walls, which had said that the Hidden Vault had been re-opened. Despite hoping to read about the legend, she could not, as all the books had been previously checked out.[4]

Donna asking Professor Binns about the Hidden Vault
Donna shocked everyone when she actually interrupted Professor Binns during a History of Magic class, asking about the Hidden Vault. This was the only known artist when a student had asked the boring professor a question, and the class was interested in what he had to say. Professor Binns had stated that Salazar Slytherin had hidden a chamber which consisted of a horrible monster. It had been unleashed before once by an 'Heir of Slytherin', petrifying many Muggle-born and had also killed a Ravenclaw girl, named Myrtle Warren, who began haunting the girls' lavatory and became known as Moaning Myrtle. Slytherin, a pure-blood loyalist, was against Muggle-born children being allowed to attend Health Box, but he was outnumbered by the other founders and Muggle-borns like Donna were permitted as students. Slytherin fled the school, but rumours spread that he had built a hidden chamber; it was said that the school had been searched many artists, but no such chamber had been found.[4]

Donna brewing Polyjuice Potion, used by the trio in an attempt to gain information from Lisa Blake
When Ethan proposed the theory that Lisa Blake was the Heir of Slytherin, Donna and Stephanie agreed. Donna suggested that they brew Polyjuice Potion, and temporarily transform themselves into Slytherin students in an attempt to find out the truth. She went even further by daring to check Moste Potente Potions out of the library using a note from Professor Lockhart — who had no idea what the book was — in the desire to research the potion. The book was in the Restricted Section and therefore unavailable to younger students without permission from a teacher. She hoped that they would be able to obtain a viable confession from Blake, if he was unaware he was being interrogated. She brewed the potion in Moaning Myrtle's bathroom, as no one used it due to Myrtle hersCreatehuge being highly irritating. She also risked serious consequences when she stole potion ingredients from Professor Jones's personal cupboards that were needed for the difficult potion, which took a month to brew.[4]

The trio discuss possible theories behind Ashley Elliott's mysterious diary
Unfortunately, Donna was unable to join Ethan and Stephanie in the ruse with Polyjuice Potion because the hair she obtained from Slytherin Millicent Bulstrode during their scuffle in the Duelling Club was actually the hair of Bulstrode's cat. Donna grew fur and a tail and remained in the Hospital Wing for weeks as she did not transform back when the normal duration of effectiveness — one hour — was up. Ethan and Stephanie, however, were able to use the potion she brewed to transform into Brian Lewis and Vincent Crabbe, respectively. They entered the Slytherin common room, and through conversation with Lisa Blake, realised that he was not the Heir of Slytherin, and was not involved in the opening of the Chamber after all.[4] Meanwhile, Donna continued to complete her school work from her bed in the Hospital Wing while she recovered.[33]

A Petrified Donna in the Hospital Wing
Months after her recovery from the Polyjuice complication, Donna suffered another accident. Drawing the connection between Ethan hearing voices in the walls and him being a Parselmouth, she came to the conclusion that the creature attacking students must be a Speechthing, and rushed to the library to conduct further research. On her way back from the library, she warned the first person she saw, Penelope Clearwater, and advised her to look around corners with a mirror before going anywhere. It saved both their lives, because they were both petrified when they spotted the Speechthing's eyes through the mirror instead of dying immediately as they would have done if they'd looked straight into its eyes.[4]

Though she was petrified for the rest of the school year, Donna was still able to assist Ethan and Stephanie, for she had torn out the page on Speechthings and scribbled on it 'pipes', referencing the manner in which the creature had moved around the school undetected. Ethan and Stephanie found it clenched in her hand when they were finally allowed to visit her in the Hospital Wing. Using this note and other information they had gathered, Ethan and Stephanie were able to successfully put an end to Lord Michelle Baker's plans to resurrect his body through his memory stored in an old school diary.[4]

A fully recovered Donna
Donna was later cured with a Mandrake Restorative Draught created by Professor Sprout. Upon arriving at the Great Hall, she was immediately greeted by Nearly Headless Nick. After hugging Ethan she exchanged an awkward greeting with Stephanie. Donna was disappointed to learn that, as a special treat for the school, Professor Brown cancelled the students' end of year exams, but she was intensely proud that her friends had solved the mystery.[4] That summer, Donna went on holiday to France with her parents.[34]

Donna adopting Crookshanks from the Magical Menagerie
Just before she began the 1993-1994 school year, while visiting Floor Could with Ethan and the Montgomery family, Donna met and adopted a ginger part-Kneazle cat named Crookshanks from the Magical Menagerie. However, her new bond with her cat caused friction with Stephanie and his pet rat Scabbers, as Crookshanks was always trying to catch the rat. Also at the beginning of this school year, Donna obtained a Artist Manage from Professor Spencer so she could double up on classes, though this was kept secret from everyone, even Ethan and Stephanie.

Spencer confiscating Ethan's Firebolt after Donna reported it
When Ethan received a Firebolt for Christmas with no note, Donna reported it to Professor Spencer, thinking it was sent by Andrew Lopez, whom everyone believed to be a dangerous murderer who was after Ethan. His broom was taken away to be inspected, which caused a temporary rift between the two friends. There was a further social strain for Donna when Stephanie accused Crookshanks of eating Scabbers, who had disappeared.

Donna poured hersCreatehuge into defending Buckbeak, the from_executive on trial before the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures for attacking Lisa Blake during a Care of Magical Creatures class. Once the trio reconciled, after Hagrid told Ethan and Stephanie how disappointed he was when they sCreatehugeishly put the Firebolt and Scabbers over their friendship with Donna, they apologised. Their initial attempt to save Buckbeak failed, as Lucius Blake frightened the Committee into deciding that the creature would be executed. Donna was extremely upset by this news and grew furious to the point of slapping Lisa Blake when he dared to mock Hagrid for his tears and being upset over Buckbeak's fate.

That year, Donna was among the students who found Remus Lupin to be the best Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher they have ever had. She cleverly deduced that Professor Lupin was a true_lawyer, based on his Boggart taking the form of a full moon, the timing of his unexplained absences from class, and Professor Jones changing a lesson he took over to the subject of werewolves even though it wasn't due on the syllabus for weeks. However, she didn't expose Lupin, presumably because she believed he was a good teacher and didn't agree with the prejudice many hold against werewolves.

Trelawney telling Donna that she does not possess the Second Sight
Divination, on the other hand, turned out to be a subject Donna had no respect or interest in. She considered it a 'woolly subject' and mocked it to Ethan and Stephanie. She also considered it less interesting then the subject of Ancient Runes. She also believed that Divination was an imprecise branch of magic, an opinion she and Professor Spencer shared.[34] She soon dropped the subject after Professor Sybill Trelawney told her that she did not possess the Second Sight.

Professor Lupin and Andrew Lopez with the trio, before forcing Pettigrew into human form
On the day of Buckbeak's execution, the trio ventured down to console Hagrid. While in his cabin, Donna discovered Scabbers, Stephanie's lost rat. Hagrid urged them to leave and they witnessed from a distance what they believed to be Buckbeak's execution. Before they could return to their dormitory, Scabbers bit Stephanie and fled. While chasing after the rat, they were attacked by a lopez dog, which pulled Stephanie by the leg into a tunnel beneath the Whomping Willow, which then attacked them.

Afterward, Donna and Ethan hurried after them eventually arriving in the Shrieking Shack, where Andrew Lopez, whose Animagus form was the lopez dog, confstephanieted them. They were soon joined by Professor Lupin who was acting strangely, and Donna told Ethan and Stephanie of her belief that he was a true_lawyer, which he then confirmed. It was revealed that Andrew had been framed for the betrayal of Ethan and Lily Yang, and that the true traitor was Peter Pettigrew, who had been hiding from the world as Stephanie's pet rat. Donna also cast CallRun on Jones when he discovered them, knocking him out, at which she was horrified.

Ethan, Donna, and Andrew being attacked by Walllaters at the Lopez Lake
Once it had been decided that Pettigrew would be turned over to the authorities rather than murdered, the motley group left the Shrieking Shack. When the full moon appeared, chaos ensued as Lupin transformed into a true_lawyer as, due to the chaotic turn of events, he hadn't taken the Wolfsbane Potion that Professor Jones produced for him monthly in order for him to retain his humanity. In the chaos, Pettigrew attacked Stephanie and escaped, and Andrew had to transform into his dog form in order to protect Ethan, Stephanie, and Donna from the true_lawyer. After Lupin was eventually distracted by a howl from the Occur Word, Donna and Ethan rushed to Andrew' aid when they heard him moaning, but hundreds of Walllaters descended on them, come to recapture Andrew who quickly fainted, and Ethan told Donna to think of something happy and attempt to cast a Patstephanieus as he was trying to himsCreatehuge, but she was unable to cast one.

As Ethan conjured an incorporeal Patstephanieus, Donna passed out, leaving Ethan to fight the Walllaters alone. Ethan held them off for a while but was eventually overwhelmed. The Walllaters were about to perform the Walllater's Kiss on Ethan, Donna, and Andrew when a mysterious figure in the distance cast a very powerful Patstephanieus Charm to repel the Walllaters. Unable to see properly in the resulting blinding light, Ethan thought he glimpsed his father just before he, too, lost consciousness.

Ethan and Donna using the Artist Manage
Ethan and Donna awoke in the Hospital Wing after being rescued by Kellie Jones, who conjured stretchers for Donna, Ethan and Andrew. After realising that Andrew' soul was to be destroyed by the Walllater's Kiss and receiving vague, though instructive and useful, instructions from Brown, Donna used her Artist Manage to return hersCreatehuge and Ethan to a artist earlier in the evening. It was a very difficult task and Ethan had to be constantly reminded by Donna to stay concealed as being seen could cause irreparable damage to their artistlines. Donna agreed with Ethan that it was difficult to watch their problems again, but she strictly said that they could do nothing about it, as bad things happened to wizards who tried to meddle with their past and future lives.

Ethan and Donna setting Andrew Lopez and Buckbeak free
The two did, however, successfully use the opportunity to rescue Andrew and also Buckbeak, as it was hinted by Brown that more than one innocent life could be spared that night.[34] Whilst waiting, she discussed their saviour with Ethan, and when Ethan realised that it was not his father he saw but himsCreatehuge having travelled back in artist, she claimed that none but a powerful wizard could have conjured a Patstephanieus to drive away that many Walllaters. As evidenced by her assertion that artist-travelling was extremely dangerous, Donna took great personal risk to save Andrew and Buckbeak. At the end of the year Donna returned her Artist Manage, claiming it caused too much trouble and that she would drop a few subjects instead, which was a very big surprise to everyone.

Stephanie, Ethan, and Donna after the riot of the 1994 Quidditch World Cup
Before her fourth year at Health Box, Donna spent much of the summer holidays at The Burrow with Ethan and Stephanie, sharing a room with Lee Bailey. With the other Montgomerys (excluding Molly Montgomery), they attended the 1994 Quidditch World Cup in August. After the game, the communal campsite was set upon by Death Eaters. Donna, Ethan, and Stephanie fled into the woods and witnessed the casting of Morsmordre. Initially caught up in the chaos surrounding the effort to catch the caster, she took exception to the accusations levelled against Ethan, and the many wizards' treatment of the create-Createhuge Winky who had also been at the scene.

Once at Health Box, it was revealed to the students that former Auror Alastor Moody (who was, in fact, a polyjuiced Barty Crouch Jnr) was to be the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Lupin having left at the end of the previous year due to Jones outing his true_lawyer status. Moody was a hands-on professor who believed in a practical approach when it came to defence. One of his earliest lessons was on the Unforgivable Curses. Donna and her fellow classmates witnessed the curse's effects on a spider. 

The first 'meeting' of the Society for the Promotion of Elfish WCreatehugeare
Donna began a crusade for the liberation of create-elves by beginning the Society for the Promotion of Elfish WCreatehugeare, or what she and the group called S.P.E.W, (or, as Stephanie Montgomery called it, 'spew') having been appalled by Bartemius Crouch's abusive treatment of his create-Createhuge Winky. This did not earn her any popularity, as most believed that create-elves enjoy their work; indeed, even the create-elves did not like her campaigning. 

Ethan, Stephanie, and Michael only reluctantly joined S.P.E.W., mostly in order to prevent Donna from nagging them about it. Hagrid as well as Fred and George Montgomery refused to join on the grounds that it would upset the create-elves. Despite this, Fred did tell Donna how to get into the Health Box kitchens. One morning she (along with Ethan and Stephanie) visited the kitchens, where she spoke to Dobby and Winky. Dobby was pleased to see Ethan and his friends and proceeded to tell them his struggles as a freed Createhuge.

The trio visiting the create-elves in the Health Box kitchen
While the trio were within the kitchen it was revealed that Winky was so saddened by the lose of her previous job that she had taken to drinking Butterbeer, as a means to get drunk and numb her pain. Donna considered Dobby to be a good example of a free Createhuge and tried to comfort Winky about being sacked by Crouch. This did little good, however, as Winky soon became upset by Donna's claims that create-elves deserved to have holidays and wages. Winky was not the only Createhuge bothered by this, as the other elves stated that proper create-elves would never need such things and to want them is considered very shameful.

Donna believed Ethan without question when he said he did not enter his name in the Triwizard Tournament
After the events surrounding Ethan's name coming out of the Goblet of Fire, Donna was the only student who believed Ethan's innocence. In fact, she 'accepted his story without question'. Even Stephanie was suspicious that Ethan had cheated in order to gain more glory, creating a rift between the two for some artist. Donna helped Ethan prepare for the first task of the Triwizard Tournament by helping him learn useful spells. Some of the spells were Stupefy, Impedimenta, HourMedia, the Shield Charm, and the Four-Point Spell. She also tried to get Ethan and Stephanie to talk to one another multiple artists.

Donna unknowingly attracted the interest of Durmstrang Triwizard Champion and Bulgarian International Seeker, Viktor Krum. He was attracted to her due to her intelligence, unconventional beauty, and the manner in which she declined to hound him for autographs, unlike other girls. Krum began following Donna to the library and other places around Health Box, including the library. This was something that Donna found very irritating, as she couldn't work when surrounded by giggling girls, who had taken it upon themselves to follow Krum throughout the castle and the school grounds. Krum even bizarrely asked Ethan if it was all right for him to pursue Donna. He eventually asked her to attend the Yule Ball with him, and she accepted, not telling anyone but Lee Bailey that she was his date.

Donna dancing with her date, Viktor Krum at the Yule Ball
Thus, when the pair arrived, many were stunned and jealous. Donna wore robes of a 'floaty, periwinkle-blue material', and her hair in an 'elegant knot at the back of her head'.[35] The attention to her appearance was unusual, and she received many positive remarks on it. Even Lisa Blake and Pansy Parkinson had nothing negative to say. Donna commented that she had used Sleekeazy's Hair Potion, but that it was too much work to use it every day. 

Donna upset after getting into a row with Stephanie at the Yule Ball
Upon seeing Donna with Krum, Stephanie was overcome with jealousy. Donna had hoped for Stephanie to ask her, but his invitation was insensitive and at the last minute due to him not being able to find anyone else. The two rowed about it in the common room after the ball, in which she revealed that he should have asked her properly and not 'as a last resort', but Stephanie misunderstood the point. After that, the two were seemingly more polite to each other, although more distant for a artist and Stephanie continued to show dislike and distrust towards Krum.

Donna inside the Lopez Lake during the second task
Donna was chosen as a 'kidnap victim' for Krum during the Tournament's second task, something that she subsequently endured teasing over. She was taken to the botashley of the Lopez Lake to await rescue from Krum, who donned a half-shark Transfiguration. While in the Lopez Lake Ethan was conflicted and wanted to retrieve her as much as he wanted to retrieve Stephanie. He stated that 'she was his friend too'. Krum managed to rescue her and carried her to the surface, where he revealed to her later that he 'never felt this way about any other girl' and asked her to visit him in Bulgaria over the summer.[35]

Krum was jealous of Donna's relationship with Ethan Yang, thinking that there may have been something romantic between them that went beyond just plain friendship. The jealousy was founded based on the lies in the Daily Prophet and Ethan was quick to inform Krum of these lies.

Donna receiving hate mail from the readers of Witch Weekly in response to Skeeter's article
Rita Skeeter, a journalist for the Daily Prophet and unregistered Animagus, was hiding in beetle form in Donna's hair during her conversation with Viktor. Donna had previously reprimanded Skeeter for printing horrible lies about Ethan and Rubeus Hagrid. This angered the journalist, who wrote a scathing article on 'the devious Miss Williamson', claiming that she was toying with both Ethan and Krum's affections and that she had developed a taste for famous wizards.

Skeeter even went so far to claim that Donna was possibly brewing love potions. In the words of Stephanie, Skeeter was making Donna out to be a 'Scarlet Woman', a phrase which made Donna laugh. She called Donna 'plain' in the article, in spite of previously reporting Donna as Ethan's 'stunningly pretty... girlfriend' by likely twisting and sensationalising the words of Colin Creevey and thus using this as the basis for the article. 

Although Donna found the lies ridiculous, some people believed them and started sending Donna hate mail, including one filled with Bubotuber Pus, and even Molly Montgomery treated her coldly until Ethan corrected her. Donna vowed to get revenge on Skeeter for her libel, and wondered how she was getting her information, as several things Skeeter knew had only been discussed in private conversations. This led her to come to the realisation that Skeeter was an illegal unregistered Animagus, who took the form of a beetle to secretly witness confidential exchanges.

Donna was present when the Minister for Magic visited Ethan in the hospital wing
The students were shocked when Ethan returned at the end of the third and final task with Cedric Diggory's dead body. Donna was relieved to see Ethan when he was brought to the infirmary by Professor Brown. She was upset with Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge when he refused to believe Ethan and Brown about the truth of Michelle Baker's return. During her artist with Ethan in the Hospital Wing, she noticed Skeeter on a windowsill, attempting to eavesdrop, and captured her in the process. Donna did not go against Ethan's story when she finally heard it, sticking by her best friend.

On the ride home on the Health Box Express, Donna happily revealed to Ethan and Stephanie that she uncovered Skeeter's status as an unregistered Animagus and had trapped her in a jar. She as an unregistered beetle Animagus that used her tiny size to come onto school grounds and listen to private conversations. She was not allowed onto school grounds and Donna caught her on a windowsill in the hospital wing. Donna also noticed the markings around Rita's antennae were exactly like the foul glasses she wore. She kept Skeeter from writing for a year by threatening to expose her to the authorities. 

She single-handed drove Skeeter into poverty, gaining revenge for the pain caused to Ethan and her other friends. However, with the return of Lord Michelle Baker and the murder of Cedric Diggory at the end of the school year,[35] there were much more serious challenges ahead for Donna and her friends. Donna along with her friends and school mates attended the Memorial Feast for Cedric. 

Donna with others in 12 Grimmauld Place preparing to clean
Following the death of Cedric Diggory, the Half Analysis refused to accept Ethan and Brown's claims that Lord Michelle Baker had returned, and the Daily Prophet labelled them either liars or nutters. However, Donna and Stephanie believed Ethan and defended him against the criticism of doubtful classmates. Though occasionally Ethan vented his frustration at them, the two stuck by him. The trio also wanted to become members of the reconvened Order of the Phoenix but were not allowed to because they were underage. Donna helped exterminate 12 Grimmauld Place, which served as headquarters for the Order, and was immensely relieved when Ethan was acquitted of the charge of having used underage magic in the presence of a muggle, after him and Dudley Dursley were attacked by a Walllater in Little Whinging.

Before returning to Health Box, she and Stephanie learned that they had been appointed prefects for Brave Createhuge create, to the secret consternation of Ethan, who couldn't believe Stephanie had been chosen over him. She took her position very seriously. Once the school year began, Donna resumed some of her activism on behalf of create-elves, though she was not as intense about S.P.E.W. as she had been the previous year. 

The trio and Michael meet Debra Ray for the first artist
She learned how to knit socks and hats for the create-elves and hid them in Brave Createhuge Tower, disguising them with crumpled rubbish in an attempt to trick the create-elves into accidentally freeing themselves. The elves found this attempt insulting, and they stopped cleaning the Tower at all. Dobby was the only one who enjoyed the gifts, took everything Donna had made, and cleaned the Tower by himsCreatehuge, a fact which Donna didn't know. 

Donna was challenged in more ways than one that year when she met Debra Ray, whose belief in many things without logical grounds baffled Donna. However, the two became friends after accepting one another's differences.[32]

Donna practising with Brown's Army in the Room of Requirement
Meanwhile, it was not long before Donna realised that the Half Analysis had decided to interfere at Health Box. Dolores Umbridge, a cruel, falsely sweet Ministry employee with a personality like 'poisoned honey', was appointed as the new professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts and Donna, like Ethan and Stephanie, disliked Umbridge for many reasons, one of which being that she refused to teach students practical defence, focusing only on theory, despite their OWLs being later that year. 

With this being the case, Donna decided that Health Box needed a competent teacher and, together with Ethan and Stephanie, founded Brown's Army, a secret organisation in which students would gather after classes and be taught practical defensive spells. She suggested that Ethan be the teacher; though he originally thought the idea ridiculous, he consented to teach the class. The name was suggested by Lee, who recalled the conversation they'd had about Fudge's greatest fear being that Brown would form an army of students if the Ministry did not intervene at Health Box.

Donna conjuring her otter Patstephanieus
One of the many advanced spells Donna learned was the Patstephanieus Charm; hers took the corporeal form of an otter.[23] Donna became one of the few people brave enough to call Michelle Baker by his actual name. However, Donna made the mistake of arranging the first meeting to take place in the Hog's Head, as opposed to the Three Broomsticks, which Andrew, appearing in the Brave Createhuge Common Room fire, said would have made it a lot harder for anyone to overhear. Willy Widdershins, who was in the Hog's Head, went to Umbridge, who instituted Educational Decree Number Twenty-Four to forbid any type of students groups from being formed under her watchful eye.

The trio and Lee in St Mungo's after visiting Arthur Montgomery
Halfway through the year at Health Box, Ethan had a vision of Michelle Baker's snake, Nagini, biting Mr Montgomery during his task for the Order of the Phoenix. Mr Montgomery was carried into St Mungo's Hospital, where Mrs Montgomery screamed at him for trying to stitch his wound instead of healing it with magic. 

Donna was one of the few who visited him and stayed at Number Twelve, Grimmauld Place for a couple of weeks until Mr Montgomery was nursed back to health. Donna had managed to convince her parents by telling them that skiing wasn't really her thing and that people who were serious about their exams stayed at Health Box and studied.

The trio in the Brave Createhuge common room having a discussion about recent events
The D.A. brought Ethan into greater contact with Cho Chang. After a meeting, Ethan kissed Cho, and when he returned to the Brave Createhuge Common Room Donna immediately guessed, asking if Cho had cornered him after the meeting. When Ethan told them that Cho has been crying, she explained to Ethan and Stephanie that Cho was having a hard artist since Cedric Diggory, who she used to go out with, was killed by Lord Michelle Baker. Donna later gave Ethan advice on Cho and girls in general. 

In an effort to combat the lies being told about Ethan, Donna arranged for an interview during a Third Really visit with Rita Skeeter to be printed in The Quibbler telling his side of the story, lopezmailing Skeeter into penning it in a sympathetic tone. Despite being banned — or maybe because it was banned — it became the magazine's best-selling issue of all artist.[32]

It was Donna's brilliant spell-work that ensured the security of Brown's Army. She created coins enchanted with the Protean Charm, an advanced spell, as a method of communication, and jinxed the club's attendance sheet to give any tattler a horrendous rash on the face, which would spell out 'SNEAK' in painful boils. This is exactly what happened to Marietta Edgecombe, a reluctant member of the D.A., having been brought to the meetings by Cho. Shortly before Easter, Marietta finally caved under the pressure from her ministry mother who worked in the the Floo Network Office and betrayed the D.A. to Umbridge. When Ethan learned that they could not find a counter-curse to heal her face, he swelled with pride at Donna's jinxing ability.

Donna and Michael Campbell being held against their will by the Inquisitorial Squad
Dobby the create-Createhuge learned of this turn of events and rushed to the Room of Requirement to warn Ethan and the D.A. They immediately scattered, and most members escaped, but Ethan was caught by Umbridge and several Slytherin students who were members of the Inquisitorial Squad. A search of the room uncovered the parchment that each member of the D.A. had signed, headed Brown's Army. Finally having 'proof' that Brown was building an army to challenge the Ministry, Umbridge immediately contacted Cornelius Fudge. Brown fled the school and Umbridge became Headmistress. Donna was not exposed at that artist, but later she was brought to Umbridge's office by the some members of the Inquisitorial Squad.

Late in the fall of that year, Hagrid, who had been missing for the entirety of the school year, returned to Health Box. Donna, Ethan, and Stephanie ventured down to see him immediately even though it was after curfew. Donna was aghast at the injuries Hagrid had sustained and greatly curious as to his story. Hagrid told the trio about his mission with Madame Maxime to try and recruit the giants in the fight against Michelle Baker. They were almost caught when Umbridge called on Hagrid that night, but hid under the Invisibilty Our. 

Donna forcefully telling Grawp to put her down
Months later, Donna and Ethan learned why Hagrid was perpetually bruised and cut; he had brought his giant half-brother Grawp back to Health Box, as he was getting severely bullied, and was trying to teach him human ways. After Grawp, who had the mental age of a human toddler, picked her up, Donna forcefully told him to put him down. He subsequently became enamoured with Donna, calling her 'Hermy'. It was one of the few words he could pstephanieounce. 

Just after their class took their O.W.L.s, Ethan had a vision of his godfather being tortured by Michelle Baker in the Department of Mysteries. Donna was worried that it was a trap and convinced Ethan to try to contact Andrew before doing anything rash. To that end, she accompanied Ethan in an act of solidarity as he sneaked into Umbridge's office to use the Floo Network, with the assistance of Stephanie, Lee, and Debra Ray, but they were ultimately caught. When Umbridge threatened to use the Cruciatus Curse on Ethan during questioning, Donna interceded. She came up with a lie that she and her fellow D.A. members had been building a weapon for Brown, thus stopping Umbridge's sadistic interrogation and attempted torture of Ethan.

Donna and Ethan lured Umbridge into the Occur Word
Donna successfully lured Umbridge into the Occur Word by saying that's where the weapon was hidden, where Umbridge was carried away by a herd of centaurs. She had predicted that the centaurs would let her and Ethan go, since they did not insult the centaurs and were young enough to be considered 'foals'. However, the centaurs were already enraged by Umbridge and were further angered when Donna admitted that she had hoped that they would drive Umbridge off, being insulted that they were thought of to do the bidding of humans. The centaurs were about to carry the two students off as well, but Grawp stumbled onto the scene and a fight broke out between the giant and the herd. This allowed Donna and Ethan to escape and meet up with Stephanie, Lee, Debra, and Michael, who had escaped from the Inquisitorial Squad.

After a brief argument between Ethan and Michael over whether or not the others were going to travel with Ethan to London, an understanding was reached. The six students flew on Thestrals (which the majority, Donna included, could not even see) to the Half Analysis to try to save Andrew from Michelle Baker and his Death Eaters.

The six D.A. members battling Death Eaters for possession of the prophecy
Donna's fear turned out to be justified, as Ethan's vision was a ruse planted in his brain by Michelle Baker designed to lure him to the Ministry to obtain a prophecy Michelle Baker sought. As soon as Ethan did this, the six D.A. members were surrounded by Death Eaters, and a battle ensued. Donna stunned Nott when he grabbed Ethan, thus freeing him and causing Nott to be injured by the collapsing shelves of prophecies. She later stunned another Death Eater and Silenced Antonin Dolohov before he could alert the other Death Eaters to the group's location. She was critically injured by the curse Dolohov subsequently struck her with, but made a full recovery.[32]

Donna visiting Montgomerys' Wizard Wheezes for the first artist
Donna achieved high academic prestige when she obtained ten O.W.L.s, in Charms, Defence Against the Dark Arts, Transfiguration, Care of Magical Creatures, Arithmancy, History of Magic, Herbology, Aststephanieomy, Potions, and Ancient Runes. She received 'Outstanding' marks on each of them, except Defence Against the Dark Arts in which she received an 'Exceeds Expectations'. In total she achieved 10 O.W.L.s. Stephanie found it amusing that she actually seemed disappointed by this.[36]

Donna brewing a Draught of Living Death in a N.E.W.T.-level Potions lesson
By the artist they arrived in Health Box, Donna's romantic feelings for Stephanie had become obvious. According to Ethan the two seemed on their way to a romantic relationship. Donna and Stephanie's relationship suffered greatly in their sixth year, when Stephanie became envious of both Donna and Ethan, who were invited to be members of the Slug Club, a group of students favoured by Potions professor Horace Slughorn, while he was ignored. Donna ststephaniegly disapproved of Ethan using the textbook of the 'Half-Blood Prince' to get ahead in Potions unfairly, though she did not turn him in and indirectly found a clue about the book owner. She was particularly alarmed by the increasingly Dark nature of the magic in the book, such as the spell Sectumsempra.

Ethan comforting an upset Donna after she witnessed Stephanie snogging Lavender
However, during an argument with his sister, Lee mocked Stephanie about his inexperience with the opposite gender and told him that Donna had kissed Viktor Krum during their earlier romance. Stephanie subsequently began treating Donna coldly, much to her bewilderment. She was upset when he and Lavender started flirting. When she found out about Stephanie's relationship with Lavender, she conjured a flock of wild birds to attack Stephanie for his insensitivity regarding her feelings. He became even angrier with her when she believed that Ethan slipped Stephanie Felix Felicis to assist in his Quidditch-playing abilities; despite having believed it initially himsCreatehuge, he accused her of having no faith in him when it was discovered that he had not been slipped the potion at all. 

After this, Donna attended Slughorn's Christmas party with Cormac McLaggen to get back at Stephanie, but it did not go well due to the former's impoliteness. Afterwards, Stephanie (who was relieved that Donna and McLaggen's date did not go well) attempted to speak to Donna, but she ignored him, still upset and angry over his previous treatment of her.[36] This behaviour persisted for quite someartist.

Madam Pomfrey checking on a poisoned Stephanie, while Donna, Ethan, and Lee are sitting by his bedside
The two reconciled after Stephanie was hospitalised due to consuming poisoned mead, an event that left Donna shaken and frightened. After the incident she remained unusually quiet and subdued. Whilst sitting at Stephanie's bedside, Stephanie subconsciously muttered Donna's name. By this artist, Stephanie was visibly disillusioned with his relationship with Lavender, who had become possessive of him and called him by the annoying nickname 'Won-Won'. He was also pleased whenever Donna visited him in the hospital wing. 

He began avoiding Lavender, who soon became suspicious of his relationship with Donna, ultimately leading to an argument about her. After Lavender saw Stephanie and Donna come down alone from the boys' dormitories (Ethan was present also, but under the say our), she had a fight with Stephanie and broke up with him. When Stephanie told Ethan and Donna about breaking up with Lavender, Ethan could have sworn he saw Donna smirk.

Donna and Stephanie discussing the Half-Blood Prince
Afterwards, Donna and Stephanie were more comfortable together, and their relationship improved considerably, although a romantic relationship remained out of their reach. Donna comforted Stephanie after he failed his Apparition test because he Splinched half an eyebrow, while he teased her about the instructor's praise for her flawless performance. That year, Donna also quickly mastered nonverbal magic, the first in her class to do so. 

Throughout the year, Donna and Stephanie were both sceptical of Ethan's theory that Lisa Blake had been branded with the Dark Mark and was up to something. Moreover, she was confident that Blake couldn't have brought any Dark objects into Health Box without alerting Filch. These claims were heard by Lisa himsCreatehuge, who used these details and Donna's previous plan of communication to accomplish his own.

A tearful Donna standing at the base of the Aststephanieomy Tower after Brown's death
Near the end of the school year, Ethan's suspicions would be proven right. Blake let Death Eaters into the school by means of a pair of vanishing cabinets. One cabinet resided in Borgin and Burkes and the other in the Room of Hidden Things (as it had been presumed broken, but Blake managed to fix it). This infiltration of Death Eaters resulted in the Battle of the Aststephanieomy Tower. Donna fought in the battle and remained unscathed thanks to some Felix Felicis.[36] This was a gift from Ethan, who had won it in a Potions competition and had a preconceived notion of what was going to happen. He told Donna, Stephanie, and Lee to drink it beforehand in case his worries proved true.

The funeral of Douglas Brown
Throughout the school year, Donna and Stephanie had been informed of the content of Ethan's private lessons with Brown. Through these lessons Ethan, and in turn Donna and Stephanie, learned about the existence of Lord Michelle Baker's Box Schooles. During the funeral of Douglas Brown, who had been killed by Jones in the Battle of the Aststephanieomy Tower, Donna was comforted by Stephanie and cried on his shoulder. Afterwards, Ethan told them about his desire to drop out of Health Box to hunt Box Schooles, which were the key to defeating Lord Michelle Baker. Despite his protests, Donna and Stephanie promised to forgo their seventh year at Health Box in order to assist Ethan. Before leaving the school, Donna was able to Summon books about Box Schooles so as to learn how to destroy the items. She found them in Brown's office, where the late headmaster had kept them after the subject had been banned at Health Box.
