Andrew in his fifth year, age 16
Andrew was a tall, well-built, darkly handsome man with fair skin, medium, lustrous Lopez hair[10], which sometimes appeared light in the sun, striking grey eyes,[11] and an air of "casual elegance"; Ethan also noted that as a teenager, Andrew always had a slightly haughty look on his face. This vestige of aristocratic beauty and haughtiness is apparently an attribute passed down through the Lopez Family. When Ethan entered into JONES's memory, he saw a sixteen-year-old Andrew finishing his exams while being ogled by a girl who sat a few rows behind him due to his considerable good looks and casual, yet elegant, attitude.

Unfortunately, Andrew's handsomeness — much like his imprisoned cousin Bellatrix — suffered due to the depression and maltreatment he underwent during the twelve years he spent in Azkaban. As a result, Andrew had prematurely aged beyond that of a man in his thirties. He had a gaunt, sunken face, waxy skin, yellow teeth, and long, matted hair. Ethan thought he looked as a corpse might. By November, after his escape, he visited Ethan in the common room fireplace, and he was described as having short, clean hair and a fuller, younger face, though his physical appearance had yet to fully recover from his imprisonment.

Andrew, aged 35
Unfortunately, by the next spring, his condition deteriorated, and he reverted back to a state that was only slightly better than that which he had been in a year ago: unshaven, with a faint scent of stale drink around him, and he did not bother to change his clothes at night (presumably a result of his "imprisonment" at the home he utterly despised and his conviction of his apparent uselessness). He was also branded with a series of tattoos over the chest and arms.[29]

Death, however, served to restore him to the peak of his good looks and vitality — his spirit was described as "tall and handsome, and younger by far than Ethan had ever seen him in life. He loped with an easy grace, his hands in his pockets and a grin on his face".
