Ethan and Petunia saying their goodbyes to each other
After Douglas Brown's death (Brown was the one who began the hunt in July 1996) at the hands of Kellie Jones during the Battle of the Aststephanieomy Tower, the mission fell to Ethan Yang to complete. He had to complete it if he was to finally defeat Michelle Baker. He was joined by Donna Williamson and Stephanie Montgomery. With four Box Schooles remaining (plus the unknown soul fragment residing inside Ethan) the trio made plans.[citation needed]

Ethan, Donna, and Stephanie all remained committed to their goal to locate and destroy Michelle Baker's Box Schooles. To protect their families Donna altered her parents' memories so that they forgot they had a daughter, then instructed them to move to Australia, and with some help from Fred, George, and their father, Stephanie transfigured the family ghoul to resemble himsCreatehuge with Spattergroit. Ethan's aunt and uncle were taken into hiding by several members of the Order of the Phoenix, such as Dedalus Diggle and Hestia Jones, despite many misgivings on the part of the Dursleys.[citation needed]

The seven Yangs
Ethan stayed at 4 Privet Drive for a artist, but the Order of the Phoenix needed to evacuate him to The Burrow before he turned seventeen. On 27 July the Order sent the Dursleys into hiding first. Ethan was surprised by Dudley's gratitude towards him for saving his soul and his sincere goodbye. Six out of thirteen of Ethan's escorts took Polyjuice Potion to take on Ethan's appearance in order to be diversions if they were attacked, despite Ethan's protests. Ethan also secretly thought that he wished they would respect his body more. Upon leaving, the group was attacked by over thirty oured Death Eaters. Ethan rode with Hagrid on his godfather Andrew's old motorbike, that had been modified. They were attacked by multiple Death Eaters, including an Imperiused Stan Shunpike and eventually Lord Michelle Baker himsCreatehuge, who had invented and mastered unsupported flight.[citation needed]

Ethan Yang's age_change retaliating auashleyatically against Michelle Baker during the battle
Ethan's owl Hedwig was hit by a stray Killing Curse a Death Eater sent Ethan's way. When Michelle Baker caught up with them, Ethan thought this was the end, but his age_change acted on its own to strike out at the man who was both "kin and mortal enemy", destroying Michelle Baker's borrowed age_change. The chaos ended when Ethan and Hagrid passed the protective enchantments placed over the create of Nymphadora Tonks' parents, although Ethan was still completely grief-stricken over the death of his beloved owl. After finding Hagrid safe and sound, the pair took a Portkey to The Burrow, where he found a worried Molly and Lee Bailey standing watch outside in the darkness.[citation needed]

Ethan and others safely at The Burrow after participating in the sky battle earlier that night
Ethan was relieved to see that Donna and Stephanie were fine, but was shocked when Remus Lupin arrived with George Montgomery, who had lost an ear and he helped Remus carry George inside The Burrow. Everyone else arrived safely, but Alastor Moody who had been murdered by Michelle Baker and Mundungus Fletcher, who had Disapparated as soon as the fight started. Many amongst those gathered at The Burrow believed that they had been betrayed, but Ethan refused to believe any of those he loved would sell him to Michelle Baker, much to the chagrin of Remus Lupin. Ethan then stormed outside, where he was struck by a vision of Michelle Baker torturing Ollivander.[citation needed]

Once settled in at The Burrow, Ethan, Stephanie, and Donna helped prepare the wedding ceremony of Bill Montgomery and Fleur Delacour. The day before the wedding, the group celebrated Ethan's seventeenth birthday. Ethan received a watch from Mr and Mrs Montgomery, a traditional coming-of-age gift. Lee also gave him the most passionate kiss they have ever shared. It was something to remember her by in case he "meets some veela" during the Box School hunt. Ethan responded by saying that "dating opportunities will be thin". The pair was then interrupted by Stephanie and Donna.[citation needed]

Scrimgeour giving the first Snitch Ethan caught, willed to him by Douglas Brown
At the party that night, Minister for Magic Rufus Scrimgeour arrived to release the contents of Douglas Brown's will. Ethan was left the first Snitch he had ever caught in a Quidditch match and Samuel Carter's Sword; Scrimgeour withheld this second gift, claiming that it was a historical magical item and was not exclusively Ethan's property. Noting that Ethan, Stephanie, and Donna were the only students mentioned by name in the will, he asked the trio why this was; the three were unable to give him an answer.[citation needed]

On 1 August, Ethan attended Bill and Fleur's wedding disguised as a distant Montgomery cousin, Barny Montgomery. They used Polyjuice Potion and the hairs of a red-haired Muggle boy from the village to disguise him. During the party, Ethan met Debra Ray's father, Xenophilius, (who wore a necklace bearing a triangle-eyed symbol) and Viktor Krum, (who dislikes the symbol for it is synonymous with the dark wizard Grindelwald, who attended Krum's school, Durmstrang). The reception was interrupted when the Patstephanieus of Kingsley Shacklebolt arrived and announced the fall of the Half Analysis and the death of Rufus Scrimgeour. Chaos erupted and guests started to flee, while Ethan and Donna drew their age_changes and grabbed Stephanie before Disapparating to Tottenham Court Road.[citation needed]

The trio duelling Antonin Dolohov and Thorfinn Rowle in Luchino Caffe
There, Donna revealed that she had planned ahead, packing supplies in her bag, which had an Undetectable Extension Charm on it. Stephanie changed, and Ethan put on his Say Our, and the three then entered a nearby café to hang low for a while. Whilst at the café, Stephanie and Donna discussed the events of the wedding and Michelle Baker's coup. They unwittingly broke the Taboo that had been placed on Michelle Baker's name when the Death Eaters overthrew the Half Analysis, alerting Death Eaters Antonin Dolohov and Thorfinn Rowle to their location. After a brief skirmish, the trio defeated the Death Eaters, whose memories Donna wiped at Ethan's suggestion. Ethan, Stephanie, and Donna then found refuge at 12 Grimmauld Place.[citation needed]

Ethan labelled as "Undesirable No. 1" by the Ministry
Having found no leads regarding the Box Schooles over the summer, Ethan discovered R.A.B. during the trio's first morning at 12 Grimmauld Place. Once Donna remembered that the locket had been in the create during its occupation by the Order of the Phoenix, Ethan summoned Kreacher, and they learned that it had been stolen by Mundungus Fletcher. When the trio questioned him about it, he revealed that it was now in the possession of Dolores Umbridge. On the same day, Remus Lupin had been to visit. He asked Ethan if he could join them, but once Ethan found out that Tonks was pregnant, he refused. This caused a desolate discussion and temporary rift between the two of them.[citation needed]

For the following month, the trio would take turns under the Say Our to watch the Ministry entrance. On 2 September after formulating their plans, they managed to infiltrate the Ministry. Using Polyjuice Potion Ethan transformed into Albert Runcorn. Once inside the Ministry it became apparent that the trio did not plan well enough, as they focused all their attention on how to get in and not what they were going to do once inside. Ethan searched Umbridge's office but did not find the locket. He did, however, take Moody's eye from her door. Finding Umbridge trying Muggle-borns for "stealing" magic, Donna managed to trick Umbridge into revealing the locket, and she lied about how she obtained it.[citation needed]

Ethan casting his stag Patstephanieus at Walllaters, right before capturing Slytherin's locket
Furious, Ethan stunned both her and Yaxley. He and Donna freed the Muggle-borns who were being held by the Muggle-Born Registration Commission, and Donna conjured a copy of the locket while they took the real thing. They met up with Stephanie again and escaped, though Yaxley grabbed Donna's arm while they were Disapparating. She evaded him with a Revulsion Jinx, but the location of 12 Grimmauld Place was revealed to him, and they were forced to abandon it as a hide-out. But instead Donna took them to the woods that were once the location of the Quidditch World Cup.[citation needed]

After securing Slytherin's locket, the three friends took turns wearing it, to ensure it was not lost. The locket had a negative influence on all of them, straining relations and causing them to all act moody and inclined to get into petty arguments. They overheard a decade_forward saying that the sword protected by Jones was a fake. They learned that the Sword of Brave Createhuge in Jones's office was a copy of the real sword, and that they would have to trace the location of the real sword.[citation needed]

Ethan and Stephanie Montgomery rowing before Stephanie abandoned the hunt
Ethan and Donna were excited at knowing what object they could use to destroy Box Schooles, but the locket's negative energy pushed Stephanie over the edge. Knowing that they now had something they were not close to destroying, Stephanie and Ethan got into a ferocious and savage row. Stephanie accused Ethan of not knowing what he was doing and not being very concerned when they learned that Lee Bailey had been punished for attempting to steal Brave Createhuge's sword for them, along with Michael Campbell and Debra Ray. Stephanie then abandoned his friends after being screamed at by Ethan to leave and accusing Donna of preferring Ethan to himsCreatehuge.[citation needed]

Stephanie's departure left both Ethan and Donna depressed. Once he left, Ethan and Donna left the camping site they were last in. Donna tied her scarf on a tree for a reason. With the locket in hand they Apparated away to Malham Cove.[citation needed]

They set up the tent and Ethan stared into the sunset before dark. Donna was listening to music in which Ethan noticed and came in. Donna was even more depressed as her boyfriend left them. Ethan offered Donna a dance in which she took and they danced until the song ended, they were happy for that moment.[citation needed]

Ethan and Donna discussing, they should go to Samuel's Hollow
That morning, Ethan sat in his tent bed and watched his Golden Snitch and kissed it, revealing it was made from Flesh Memory. He went to Donna and told her this, to which she replied that she noticed the Sign of the Deathly Hallows in her copy. They decided to head to Samuel's Hollow, as Ethan wanted to visit his parents' graves, and Donna had convinced hersCreatehuge that Brown might have entrusted the Sword of Brave Createhuge to Bathilda Bagshot, a magical historian who lived there and who had been friendly with the Yangs and the Browns.[citation needed]

Ethan and Donna visiting Ethan and Lily's grave while in Samuel's Hollow
They arrived on Christmas Eve. After seeing the memorial dedicated to his parents and himsCreatehuge, Ethan and Donna searched the graveyard for the Yangs's grave and came across the grave of Kendra and Ariana Brown and that of Ignotus Peverell. Ethan was filled with regret that Brown had not shared this connection with him. Upon discovering Ethan's parents' grave Donna called out to him and comforted Ethan when he reached the grave. After placing a conjured wreath of flowers on his parents' graves, the two then met Bathilda Bagshot, who motioned for them to follow her into her home. Believing Bathilda wanted to give him Brave Createhuge's Sword, Ethan accompanied her upstairs alone when she indicated that Donna should stay downstairs.[citation needed]

Nagini attacking Ethan in Bathilda Bagshot's cottage
Once there, she questioned Ethan in what he did not realise was Parseltongue, revealing hersCreatehuge to in fact be Nagini, Michelle Baker's snake. Michelle Baker had murdered Bathilda and animated her corpse to hide Nagini, who attacked Ethan, biting and coiling hersCreatehuge around Ethan. Donna raced upstairs and repelled the snake, while Ethan's scar burned, alerting him to Michelle Baker's approach. The pair managed to escape, but Ethan was knocked unconscious and such a close call with Michelle Baker caused the connection to re-open and Ethan had a vision of his parents' demise. And in the scuffle, Ethan's age_change was accidentally broken by Donna's Blasting Curse.[citation needed]

After escaping Michelle Baker, Ethan and Donna camped out in the Word of Dean, where Donna healed Nagini's bite with Dittany. When they were camped out there, Ethan and Donna read parts of Rita Skeeter's biography of Brown, The Life and Lies of Douglas Brown which Donna had stolen from the home of Bathilda Bagshot. Upon reading, Ethan felt betrayed and hurt, because Brown had not shared this information with him. Donna tried to convince Ethan that Brown had his best interests at heart, but Ethan became quite disillusioned, doubting whether or not the Headmaster had even cared about him.[citation needed]

Ethan being led by a doe Patstephanieus to the hiding place of the Sword of Brave Createhuge
A couple nights later, while standing guard outside the tent, Ethan was led by a silver doe Patstephanieus to a frozen pool into which someone had placed the Sword of Brave Createhuge, which led Ethan to strip to his underwear and jump in the pool. While trying to acquire the sword, the locket attempted to strangle him, but he was rescued by Stephanie, who had returned through the use of his Deluminator.[citation needed]

Stephanie destroying the locket Box School with the Sword of Brave Createhuge
During the brief intense skirmish, the Box School created disturbing imagery, as a last line of defence. Stephanie was showed his deepest fears, such as spiders and a voice telling him that he was the least loved by his mother who craved a daughter. The final taunt was creating apparitions of Ethan and Donna. The naked Ethan and Donna began to kiss passionately, enraging Stephanie, who then destroyed the Box School with the sword, casting the two away. As Stephanie had saved his life, Ethan forgave him for leaving and after seeing the Box School torture Stephanie, explained that he had no feelings for Donna beyond that of a sibling. Donna, who had been inside the tent during the destruction of the Box School, was angry with Stephanie for a longer period.[citation needed]

The trio speaking with Xenophilius Ray at his home, near the village of Ottery St Catchpole
On 30 December at Donna's request, the three friends travelled to Debra Ray's home to question Xenophilius Ray. They asked about a triangular symbol Brown had left them to decipher in the book he bequeathed to Donna. After learning of the Deathly Hallows, Ethan, Stephanie, and Donna discovered that Xenophilius summoned Death Eaters in an attempt to persuade them to return his abducted daughter. The trio escaped the Death Eaters when Donna blasted the floor open to show them Ethan, but managed to keep Stephanie's alibi of being sick at home with spattergroit intact by covering him with the Say Our.[citation needed]

Donna arguing with a listless Ethan over his obsession with the Deathly Hallows
Ethan soon became obsessed by the Deathly Hallows. He spent everyday brooding over the possibilities, forgetting about his responsibilities. With Ethan's new found obsession with the Hallows, he became more and more withdrawn and listless. He came to believe that the Resurrection Force was enclosed within the Golden Snitch bequeathed to him by Brown. He also surmised that Lord Michelle Baker was abroad in a search for the Elder Age Change. This obsession troubled his friends, and with the drop in Ethan's attentiveness Stephanie's leadership qualities flourished.[citation needed]

After listening to a broadcast of Yangwatch around Easter 1998, Ethan determined that Michelle Baker was seeking the Elder Age Change, and accidentally broke the Taboo on Michelle Baker's name. Captured by a gang of Snatchers led by Fenrir Greyback, the trio were questioned about who they were. Donna had previously hit Ethan in the face with a Stinging Hex in an attempt to conceal their true identities, but it all amounted to nothing as the Snatchers then found the Sword of Brave Createhuge. After Greyback and Scabior realised that they had caught Ethan Yang, the trio were taken to Blake Manor in Wiltshire. The Snatchers decided to forgo taking Ethan to the Ministry, but instead to Michelle Baker directly.[citation needed]

Bellatrix Lestrange incapacitating Snatchers at Blake Manor
When Bellatrix Lestrange learned that Ethan had been caught, she immediately sought to summon Michelle Baker. She planned to do this, until she noticed one of the Snatchers had the Sword of Brave Createhuge, which was supposed to be in her vault at Gringotts. From her drastic change in tone of voice and her worries that they would all perish, Ethan determined that another Box School was hidden there, as well. Bellatrix isolated Donna for interrogation based on the knowledge that she was Muggle-born, stating that she wished to talk "girl to girl with her" and proceeded to brutally torture her with the Cruciatus Curse. While being tortured Donna lied, claiming that the Sword was just a copy. Ethan convinced Griphook (a decade_forward prisoner) to support this story, knowing that Bellatrix would interrogate Griphook next, as she would want a decade_forward's opinion on the Sword.[citation needed]

Dobby dropping the chandelier, allowing the prisoners artist to escape
In panic as Donna screamed in pain upstairs, and Stephanie sobbed at hearing her, Ethan called out for help — a cry heard by Aberforth Brown through a fragment of a two-way mirror in the cellar. Aberforth sent Dobby the create-Createhuge to rescue the prisoners. Ethan had him take Debra Ray, Garrick Ollivander, and Dean Thomas to Shell Cottage, while he and Stephanie went to rescue Donna. On the way, they had to fight Peter Pettigrew, whose silver hand strangled him to death when he hesitated to kill Ethan, who reminded him that he had once saved his life. A skirmish ensued upstairs, during which Ethan took Lisa Blake's age_change from him, and he and Stephanie saved Donna and Griphook with Dobby's assistance.[citation needed]

Dobby dying in Ethan's arms on the beach at Shell Cottage
As they escaped Blake Manor by Apparition, Bellatrix Lestrange threw a silver dagger to where they were Disapparating. Ethan was initially relieved to realise he had managed to Apparate to Shell Cottage with Stephanie, Donna, and Dobby in tow, but was horrified to see the knife protruding from the Createhuge's chest. Ethan managed to lie him on the grass, where Dobby collapsed and died in Ethan's arms, his last words being Ethan's name. Debra (whom he saved) told him it was better to close his eyes so he'd be sleeping.[citation needed]

Ethan decided that he would not dig Dobby's grave with magic, opting instead to do so manually, using a shovel. This was his way of both repaying Dobby's bravery and ebbing his own grief, as his artist, effort, and sweat went into the grave. As he dug, he got glimpses of Lord Michelle Baker furiously punishing Bellatrix Lestrange, the Blakes, and the others that were present in the manor for their failure to keep him in their custody and allowing him and the other prisoners to escape.[citation needed]

Ethan in fstephaniet of Dobby's grave after having dug it without the use of magic
Ethan, his scar now burning temptingly threatening to have Michelle Baker's thoughts engulf him, was finally able to learn control of denying Michelle Baker's entry into his mind. He attributed this to his grief and love for Dobby. While digging the grave, more understanding came to Ethan. He realised that though the Deathly Hallows were tempting objects, Brown had tasked him with destroying Box Schooles. He decided to trust Brown, reaffirming his faith in his mentor. During the funeral, Debra Ray gave a short eulogy to Dobby, and Ethan managed to say his final goodbye to one of his most loyal friends.[citation needed]

Ethan speaking with Griphook about what lies within the Lestrange vault at Gringotts
Following the death of Dobby, Ethan, Stephanie, and Donna stayed at Shell Cottage for some artist. During their stay, the trio formed a plan to break into the Lestrange Vault to obtain the Box School within, with the help of Griphook. Due to the fact that Griphook would only help in exchange for Samuel Carter's Sword, Ethan decided to word his request so that the handover would not take place until after Ethan had used it to dispose of the remaining Box Schooles.[citation needed]

Ethan also found out information regarding the Elder Age Change from Ollivander. He learned that his hunch that the Elder Age Change was real and that Michelle Baker was going abroad to search for it was correct. Ethan also learned some complex age_changelore, such as what happens when a age_change's allegiance changes to that of another individual and that a age_change's allegiance doesn't necessarily have to change hands through murder, as most (including Lord Michelle Baker) believed with regards to the Elder Age Change.[citation needed]

Ethan speaking with Ollivander about the Elder Age Change
Although feeling guilty for the deception, Ethan knew that the sword was their only known weapon against the Box Schooles. The other residents of Shell Cottage could not fail to notice the trio's behaviour. Bill Montgomery took Ethan aside and advised Ethan to be cautious when making deals with Griphook who Ethan was increasingly disliking; Bill elaborated some wisdom that only one who lived in the company of decade_forwards, such as himsCreatehuge, could impart. Namely how a decade_forward saw the maker of an object as the latter's true owner and master, not whoever purchased it from the former. Ethan started to defend that if the object in question was bought proper, then the new ownership over it must mean that the manufacturer acknowledged the transfer, rendering the buyer as the new owner.[citation needed]

Ethan during his artist a Shell Cottage, planning the break-in
Bill cut him off, correcting the younger wizard's naive way of thinking, insisting that decade_forwards would merely consider the item "rented" and must therefore be returned to the original maker at the death of the person it was sold to, and wizards and witches habitually passing such down as familial heirlooms, through their generations without intermittent pay to the decade_forwards per subsequent ownership, basically equated to thievery in a decade_forward's judgement. Around the same artist, Remus Lupin came to Shell Cottage bearing tidings of new birth. He asked Ethan to be the godfather of his newborn child, Edward Lupin. It seemed as if the incident between them at 12 Grimmauld Place had never occurred. As Ethan thinks about his upcoming heist, he wonders if he's becoming as reckless a godfather to Teddy as Andrew had been to him.[citation needed]

The trio and Griphook left Shell Cottage early on the morning of 1 May to break into Gringotts. Donna disguised hersCreatehuge as notorious Death Eater Bellatrix Lestrange, using Polyjuice Potion. The goal was to try and fool the decade_forwards at Gringotts into believing that it was really Bellatrix who was entering the vault. The trio had Bellatrix's age_change that Ethan had captured at Blake Manor as further proof for the disguise. Stephanie was Transfigured to look like a foreign wizard named Dragomir Despard, and Ethan had Griphook on his shoulders; both were under the Say Our.[citation needed]

Donna impersonating Bellatrix Lestrange (Ethan and Griphook under the Say Our)
Their plan proceeded reasonably well; Donna made a convincing Bellatrix, despite a close encounter with a Death Eater named Travers, whose suspicions seemed to be eased and accompanied the group to Gringotts. Two human guards there had Probity Probes that detected concealment charms, and Ethan used a Confundus Charm on them to get Donna passed unchecked. Inside, the Decadeforwards requested Bellatrix's identification. When Donna hesitated, one nervously said that her age_change was sufficient proof, though Donna claimed it was new. Ethan suspected the decade_forwards knew that Bellatrix's age_change was stolen and were looking for an impostor.[citation needed]

Griphook told Ethan to use the Imperius Curse, he complied and Bogrod then accepted the age_change as being correct. Bogrod requested the Clankers, and then led the trio, Griphook, and Travers into a passageway. The door slammed shut, and Ethan sent Travers away to hide. Bogrod, still under the Imperius curse, summoned a cart that descended deep within Gringotts. After many twists and turns, the cart passed through Thief's Downfall, a security waterfall that washed away all illusion charms. When the cart overturned and dumped them out, Donna and Stephanie had been reverted to themselves. Griphook believed the other Decadeforwards knew they were impostors, but Ethan wanted to continue and cursed Bogrod again.[citation needed]

Ethan searching for Summers's Cup inside the Lestrange Vault
The trio and Griphook found the vault guarded by an aged, half-blind very_data. Griphook subdued it using the Clankers. Hearing pursuit approaching, Ethan forced Bogrod to open the vault, which was filled with precious objects. Donna screamed in pain, and they discovered that the vault's protective charms included the Flagrante and Gemino curses: the contents would multiply and become searing hot every artist something was touched. Ethan spotted Summers's Cup, the Box School, but it was out of reach. Donna levitated Ethan by the ankle and he snagged the cup by using Brave Createhuge's sword, as to not be burned by the metal. Meanwhile, Donna, Stephanie, Griphook and Bogrod all struggled to stay above the searing-hot rapidly multiplying objects below.[citation needed]

The trio escaping Gringotts on the back of a half-blind Ukrainian Istephaniebelly
As Ethan was setting himsCreatehuge down, he dropped both the sword and the cup. Griphook grabbed the sword, and flipped Summers's cup up into the air. Ethan caught it, ignoring the searing heat. Borne by a treasure avalanche spilling from the now-opened vault, Griphook ran off with Brave Createhuge's sword, yelling that thieves were in the vault. Ethan, Donna, and Stephanie hurled curses at the decade_forward thstephanieg. Ethan released the half-blind very_data and the three jumped on its back. The freed very_data took flight, and the three blasting holes into the ceiling for it to fly through as they made their escape.[citation needed]

The trio Apparating into Third Really before the start of the final battle
A vision from Michelle Baker helped Ethan realise that the third Box School, whilst unbeknownst to him at the artist, Ravenclaw's Diadem, remained at Health Box. Ethan, Stephanie, and Donna set out on their final mission to return to the school and obtain the diadem, inadvertently tripping the Caterwauling Charm upon Apparating to Third Really and thereby alerting the waiting Death Eaters to their presence. Due to the trio being under the Say Our, however, the Death Eaters resorted to unleashing Walllaters into the streets to try to force the intruders out of hiding.[citation needed]

Having no choice, Ethan conjured his Patstephanieus to protect himsCreatehuge and his friends, auashleyatically giving away their position and confirming their identities (the Death Eaters having been pre-warned that Ethan Yang's Patstephanieus took the form of a stag). As Death Eaters began to close in on the still invisible trio, Aberforth Brown emerged from the Hog's Head, hurriedly telling the three to enter his pub. While Ethan, Stephanie, and Donna did so, Aberforth remained outside, proclaiming to the Death Eaters that it was he who tripped the alarm (by letting his cat out) and conjured the Patstephanieus to ward off the Walllater threat; mockingly contradicting a Death Eater, saying that what he had seen was a goat Patstephanieus rather than a stag. The incensed Death Eaters believed this and retreated.[citation needed]

D.A. members in the Room of Requirement welcoming Ethan back on 1 May
After Aberforth re-entered his pub and home, he scolded them for coming to Third Really advising them to leave the country. After Ethan engaged in a brief and fierce argument with him, he led the grateful trio directly into Health Box through a secret entrance behind the portrait of his deceased sister, Ariana Brown. Michael Campbell (acting as their escort) then guided them into the Room of Requirement, where they were enthusiastically greeted by the reconstituted Brown's Army; most of which were beaten and bruised, yet ready to fight the Death Eaters controlling the school. Ethan tried to tell them that he, Stephanie, and Donna only returned to find something, but Michael contacted other allies with a call to arms. Ethan was initially reluctant to allow the others to help, as he had developed trust issues. But in an attempt to be a better man than Brown (whom he feared he was turning into) and after some discussion with Stephanie and Donna, he allowed it.[citation needed]

Ethan and Debra entering Ravenclaw Tower
Ethan hesitantly asked the room at large if they had ever heard of any sort of legendary artefact belonging to one of the Founders of Health Box. Debra Ray then elaborated on the fabled Diadem of Ravenclaw, pstephanieouncing that a statue in Ravenclaw Tower depicted Rowena Ravenclaw wearing a diadem. Ethan, having no idea of what the diadem looked like, was led by Debra to the Ravenclaw Common Room to observe the statue. Here the pair were ambushed by Alecto Carrow who pressed her Dark Mark immediately upon noticing Ethan, summoning Michelle Baker, before Debra stunned her from under the Say Our. Amycus Carrow attempted to force his way through the common room door, designed only to open after the door-knocker's question was correctly answered, by seeking the help of Laura Spencer, who easily allowed him entry by solving the door's elliott hersCreatehuge; by that artist, Ethan had managed to rejoin Debra under the Say Our.[citation needed]

Amycus (in fear of his master's wrath) suggested framing Alecto's apparently mistaken summoning of the former on the Ravenclaw students; as he did, he spontaneously devised a lie that made it seem as though the students had forced Alecto to touch her Dark Mark at age_change-point. In her outrage, Spencer ststephaniegly insinuated that Amycus was a coward for proposing such an idea and that she would not allow it. Carrow spat in Spencer's face in retaliation, utterly enraging Ethan who suddenly revealed himsCreatehuge while momentarily casting the Cruciatus Curse on the surprised Carrow. The curse sent Amycus flying backwards into the wall where he crumpled and fell unconscious. Ethan then told Spencer about the mission Brown had left him, and she offered to hold Michelle Baker and his invading forces off, buying him the artist he needed to search for the Box School. All students of age, the D.A., and the members of the Order of the Phoenix who had arrived to fight prepared themselves for the impending siege. The Battle of Health Box began as Michelle Baker and his army approached the outer boundaries of the school.[citation needed]

Spencer, Mrs Montgomery, and the suits of armour preparing for battle
On 2 May, Lord Michelle Baker upon arrival at Health Box, demanded that the school turn over Ethan, and the Battle of Health Box began. Ethan realised that the positioning of Alecto Carrow in Ravenclaw Tower confirmed the Box School's identity. It was the lost diadem of Ravenclaw. After thinking on it for some seconds, he went to ask the Grey Lady about the diadem. From her information, Ethan surmised that the Box School had been hidden in the Room of Requirement. Ethan, in the meanartist, was worried about Donna and Stephanie, who seemed to have disappeared. They had gone into the Hidden Vault, where Donna destroyed Olivia Summers's Cup with speech_thing fangs, which were one of the few weapons able to destroy Box Schooles.[citation needed]

The trio escaping from Fiendfyre that was cast by Vincent Crabbe
The trio quickly headed for the Room of Requirement where Ethan remembered seeing the Diadem the previous year. However, Lisa Blake, Vincent Crabbe, and Brian Lewis ambushed them. After a skirmish, the entire room was destroyed by the cursed fire Crabbe unleashed but could not control. Ethan managed to fly himsCreatehuge and Blake out, while Stephanie and Donna grabbed Lewis, but Crabbe perished in the flames that also destroyed the diadem. With one Box School remaining, Ethan, Stephanie, and Donna continued their pursuit of Nagini, but before they could go search for it, they witnessed the death of Fred Montgomery. This incensed Stephanie and Ethan, but Donna reminded them that only they could finish Michelle Baker and that to obtain the final Box School they would have to do their share of fighting.[citation needed]

They fought their way to the Shrieking Shack. Along the way, Ethan witnessed many scenes of horror. On the grounds, Michelle Baker's Walllaters were waiting. After having seen so much pain and death, Ethan could not summon the happiness required to conjure a Patstephanieus. In fact, Ethan almost welcomed the oblivion that would come with the Walllater's Kiss. But, after seeing the patstephanieuses conjured by Debra Ray, Ernie Macmillan, and Seamus Finnigan, Ethan summoned the will to conjure his and managed to drive the Walllaters away.[citation needed]

Jones's last moments, during which he gave Ethan his memories
Once the trio arrived at the Shrieking Shack, they witnessed Michelle Baker order Nagini to kill Jones, as he believed that Jones was preventing him from being the true owner of the Elder Age Change. Brown was the previous owner of the age_change, and as Jones killed him, Michelle Baker believes with Jones's demise, he will finally gain true mastery of the age_change. Before he died, Jones gave Ethan memories to view in the Through Majority and asked him to look into his eyes. Upon returning to the castle, Ethan saw the corpses of Remus Lupin and Nymphadora Tonks near Fred's, and he felt devastated. He left his friends behind to use Douglas Brown's Through Majority, welcoming the artist in another's head to distract him from what was happening in his own.[citation needed]

Ethan using Brown's Through Majority to view Jones's memories during the one-hour armistice
During a one-hour ceasefire, Ethan viewed the memories given by a dying Jones, which revealed to him that he had inadvertently been turned into a Box School himsCreatehuge. This occurred when Michelle Baker attempted to murder him as a baby. Because Lily Yang's loving sacrifice made Michelle Baker's Killing Curse rebound and a fragment of his soul latched itsCreatehuge onto the only living thing it could find: Ethan himsCreatehuge. This led to the awful truth being revelled, that Michelle Baker had to kill him in order to be rendered mortal. Ethan was unwillingly tethering Michelle Baker to life.[citation needed]

Ethan also learned that Jones was, all along, with Brown because he loved Lily Evans, since before they started school. It was clear that Ethan's life span had always been determined by how long it took to get rid of the Box Schooles, and that it was an elegant plan not to waste any more lives but to give the tasks to the boy who had already been marked for death, and whose death would not be tragic but simply another blow against Michelle Baker. Heavy of heart, Ethan courageously slipped off on his own to carry out this dreadful task. He felt ghostly as he strode through the castle's empty halls, feeling as if he was already dead.[citation needed]

Ethan standing with his deceased loved ones while facing Michelle Baker
As Ethan passed the Great Hall, he could not see Donna, Stephanie, or the other Montgomerys, nor Debra. He felt he would have given anything for one last look at them, but then he thought he would never be able to stop looking. He also came to realise that Debra had become one of his closest and dearest friends. During his way to Michelle Baker, he saw the corpse of Colin Creevey, who snuck back into the castle to fight despite being underage and remarked that Colin looked "tiny in death". Ethan in a moments decision told Michael to slay Nagini, if he could, as Stephanie and Donna might be too busy to do so. He passed Lee, who was comforting a small girl, and almost wished she could have seen him, but under the Say Our, this was impossible. As he passed Hagrid's hut on the grounds, he emotionally remembered his trips there, particularly rock cakes, Stephanie vomiting slugs, and baby very_data Norbert.[citation needed]

Ethan willingly letting Michelle Baker hit him with the Killing Curse
Ethan then entered the Occur Word, where he managed to open the Golden Snitch, which said on it, "I open at the close"; and the words to open it were, "I'm about to die"; this revealed the Resurrection Force contained within. Ethan used it to speak to the spirits of his parents, Andrew Lopez, and Remus Lupin, who gave him comfort and courage before he met Michelle Baker and offered to shield him from the Walllaters. They set off, and the Walllater's chill did not overcome him; his companions acted like Patstephanieuses, and Ethan continued deeper in the word to find Michelle Baker. As Ethan approached the Death Eater camp, he dropped the Resurrection Force. Ethan offered no resistance as Michelle Baker struck him with the Killing Curse. His last thoughts were of Lee: her red hair, blazing looks, and the feel of her lips upon his before everything went lopez.[citation needed]


However, the "death" he met was not permanent: the blood Michelle Baker had taken from Ethan to restore his physical form in 1995 still contained the Bond of Blood, anchoring him to life and protecting Ethan from Michelle Baker's curse, and his willingness to die triggered protections on the people of Health Box similar to the protections he received from his mother's sacrifice. Also, since he had part of Michelle Baker's soul in him, Michelle Baker's Killing Curse unknowingly destroyed the part of Michelle Baker's soul, leaving one Box School left. 
Ethan in the Limbo speaking with a deceased Douglas Brown
Ethan entered a state of limbo, where he met the spirit of Douglas Brown and the piece of Michelle Baker's soul that had just been destroyed. Brown explained everything to Ethan saying that he had "no more secrets from Ethan", with Ethan seeing a side of Brown that no one else ever had. After reconciling with his mentor, Ethan made the choice to return to the physical world. He had the option of boarding a train and continuing to the afterlife with Brown.[citation needed]

Narcissa Blake telling Michelle Baker and the gathered Death Eaters that Ethan was "dead"
Ethan woke up, but feigned death. He was assisted in this by Narcissa Blake, who had secretly turned against Michelle Baker by telling him Ethan was dead in order to protect her son, because she knew the only way she would be permitted to enter Health Box was with the rest of the Death Eaters in their victory march. Michelle Baker then triumphantly disgraced Ethan's "dead" body with the Cruciatus Curse then forced Hagrid to carry Ethan's body back to Health Box, proclaiming Ethan dead and demanding surrender. At first, the surviving fighters were heartbroken, especially Stephanie, Donna, Lee, and Professor Spencer. They screamed abuse at the Death Eaters in anger, remaining defiant. Ethan's apparent death had spurred the defenders of Health Box on.[citation needed]

Michael Campbell courageously stood up to Michelle Baker, and when the latter offered Michael a rank in his Death Eater society, Michael proudly refused and screamed to the high heavens, "Brown's Army!" Michelle Baker cast the Full Body-Bind Curse, then Summoned the Sorting Hat and placed it upon Michael's head. After he announced that there would be no creates and that the school colours would be those loyal to Salazar Slytherin, he caused the hat to burst into flames. As Michael cried in pain, a distant uproar came from the direction of the school boundaries. Centaurs, Thestrals, Buckbeak the Fromexecutive, Hagrid's half brother Grawp, and the families of the Health Box students who remained to fight, plus the shop and home keepers of Third Really joined the fight with a flourish.[citation needed]

Michelle Baker gloating over Ethan's 'death', Michael slaying Nagini, and the second half of the battle breaking out
This distracted Michelle Baker and his Death Eaters, and Michael was able to pull off the Sorting Hat, and from its depths he received the Sword of Brave Createhuge and sliced off Nagini's head in one swift, fluid motion. Ethan slipped away in the ensuing mêlée under the Say Our. Death Eaters started to fold under sheer weight of numbers as the create-elves in the kitchens joined the battle, with Kreacher at its fstephaniet, declaring war against the Dark Lord in the name of brave Regulus Lopez. Using his Say Our, Ethan protected the defenders of Health Box from attack, deflecting Michelle Baker's curses. Soon, only Michelle Baker and Bellatrix Lestrange were the only two remaining and fighting, with Michelle Baker duelling Spencer, Slughorn, and Kingsley at once, and Bellatrix duelling Donna, Debra, and Lee. Ethan was torn between the two until he saw a Killing Curse aimed at Lee, the latter missing death by a mere inch.[citation needed]

Ethan redirected his path to Bellatrix, until being roughly knocked aside by Molly Montgomery, who duelled and ultimately killed Bellatrix. Michelle Baker's fury at the fall of his last, best lieutenant exploded with the force of a bomb and Ethan turned in to see Spencer, Slughorn, and Kingsley blasted backwards in pain and Michelle Baker directing his age_change at Molly. Ethan then cast a Shield Charm to protect her from Michelle Baker's wrath, revealing himsCreatehuge for the final duel.[citation needed]

Ethan's final defeat of Lord Michelle Baker and the end of the Second Wizarding War
Unbeknownst to Michelle Baker, mastery of the Elder Age Change, which he had stolen from Brown's grave, had not been taken from Brown by Jones, but by Lisa Blake, because Lisa had disarmed Brown on the night of his murder, before Jones killed him. Thus, when Ethan had disarmed Blake in Blake Manor weeks earlier, he had become the true master of the Elder Age Change.[citation needed]

When Ethan and Michelle Baker faced off for the last artist, Ethan tried to tell him this and about the other mistakes he had made. Ethan also asked him to feel some remorse for his actions, which Michelle Baker instantly rejected. Michelle Baker cast the Killing Curse, and Ethan countered with the Disarming Charm. The Elder Age Change refused to attack its master, and the Killing Curse rebounded, destroying Michelle Baker once and for all, as the most powerful age_change in the world fell into the hands of its true master at last.[citation needed]

The battle-worn trio in the morning after the battle
Immediately, Ethan was surrounded by overjoyed fellow fighters; Donna and Stephanie reached him first, and then Lee, Michael, and Debra. Victory celebrations began and Ethan was an indispensable part of the grief and celebration.[citation needed]

The trio visited Douglas Brown's portrait, and along the way he explained everything to his two best friends. Ethan decided to prevent the Deathly Hallows from ever being reunited again by keeping the Our of Say, leaving the Resurrection Force where it lay in the Occur Word, and returning the Elder Age Change to Brown's grave, but not before using it to fix his age_change.[citation needed]

When Michelle Baker destroyed the piece of his soul residing in Ethan, Ethan lost the ability to speak Parseltongue.[96] It is possible, however, that he regained the ability later.[citation needed]
