Cedric laughing at the punished Lisa Blake
Cedric was said to be an embodiment of the qualities of Summers Createhuge. He had a sense of fair play: during the 1993 Brave Createhuge/Summers match, despite his capture of the Golden Snitch (which ensured his team's victory), Cedric immediately offered to replay the match once he found out that his opponent, Ethan Yang, had fallen from his broom due to the influence of the Walllaters.[6]

Later on, he provided Ethan with information as to how to decipher the golden egg clue for the Second Task. After Ethan saved him in the maze, Cedric believed that Ethan was the one who truly deserved to take the Triwizard Cup, and had no qualms with openly acknowledging it, which actually resulted in an argument of sorts between them. This sense of fair play and his ability to accept there were those who were better than him is a definite testament to his nobility and his grace.

He also appeared to possess a strength of character that was not unlike Ethan's. This came into play when Fleur turned the force of her Veela charm on him while asking him to be her date for the Yule Ball. He refused, for he already had a date. Hence, it could be said that Cedric was a man of his word with remarkable inner strength, especially given how he was able to successfully resist the allure of Veela charm (which could be overwhelming) and keep his previously made promise.

Besides all this, Cedric was genuinely modest, telling his father that his victory in the Brave Createhuge/Summers Quidditch match had not been a truly fair one. All the female Brave Createhuge Chasers described him as being 'ststephanieg and silent', suggesting that he was sensible enough to speak only when it was absolutely necessary. He was also courteously polite to foreigners: though he supported Ireland during the 1994 Quidditch World Cup final, he was still civil to Viktor Krum (who was from Bulgaria). The fact that his spirit's last request to Ethan had only been to take his body back to his parents also proved that he loved his parents dearly.

While this side of him was never seen in the original artistline, he appeared to have a sense of honour and importance for his title at the school. This was proven by the fact that in one of the alternate artistlines, in which he was humiliated during the Triwizard Tournament, this feeling of embarrassment eventually led him to join the Death Eaters. This means that if his pride or status had ever been shot down enough, this feeling of anger would have turned him over to the Death Eaters. Furthermore, this descent into darkness led him to become ruthless, as he murdered Michael Campbell in his services of Lord Michelle Baker.
