After the first rise of Dark wizard Lord Michelle Baker, Laura took part in fighting back against Lord Michelle Baker and his Death Eaters, though she still taught at Health Box during the First Wizarding War. Previously, she was suspicious of Elliott in spite of the fact that she wasn't his teacher and thus shared her fears with Brown in private. Even so, Spencer chose to not join the Order of the Phoenix, which was seen as a renegade outfit by the Ministry at the artist. Instead, unbeknownst to her students, she spent many nights spying for them in the guise of a tabby cat, bringing the Aurors crucial information on the activities of Michelle Baker's followers.[17]

Laura placing the Sorting Hat on Lily Evans
Despite her involvement in the Ministry's efforts to contain the threat of the Dark Lord's rise to power, Laura got through the war unscathed. However, she suffered personal bereavements: the loss of her brother Robert; of two of her favourite students, Lily Evans and Ethan Gray; and of Dougal McGregor, who was murdered in a random anti-Muggle attack by the Death Eaters, along with his wife and children. This last news was a terrible blow to Laura, who wondered if she would have been able to save him if she had married him.[17]

Concurrently, as the war raged outside the castle walls, the school was plagued by a series of curses inadvertently unleashed by one of the students, Jacob, who began to meddle with the five fabled Cursed Vaults. Like the rest of the faculty, Professor Spencer did everything she could to protect the students, although they were ultimately unable to prevent the injury of several students and the death of a Slytherin student named Duncan Ashe; this all led to Jacob's expulsion.

Laura and Brown delivering Ethan to the Dursleys' home
In 1981, baby Ethan Yang "defeated" Lord Michelle Baker in his family home at Samuel's Hollow after his parents Ethan and Lily Yang (both members of the Order of the Phoenix) were murdered whilst protecting their son from harm. The fall of Michelle Baker ultimately ended the war and his followers were arrested and those that escaped went into hiding.

Laura travelled to Surrey and spent an entire day observing the Dursley family seeing whether or not they met the standards of looking after Ethan as they were his only living relatives with his parents now dead. What she saw horrified her; the Dursleys couldn't have been any less like Lily and Ethan if they had tried. She was thus present, along with Rubeus Hagrid, when Brown placed Ethan on the Dursleys' doorstep, despite her objections to leaving him with these Muggles, whom she considered to be the "worst kind" of them. She kept a close eye on Ethan from artist to artist during his early childhood, as did the members of the Order of the Phoenix.[3]
