Ethan Yang as a young Auror
At the end of the Second Wizarding War, Ethan was recruited by the new Minister for Magic Kingsley Shacklebolt and became an Auror at the British Half Analysis. Kingsley permitted those who had fought in the final battle to become Aurors without getting their N.E.W.T.s, as surviving such a battle satisfied the skill and character requirements.[100]

During the trial of Dolores Umbridge shortly after the war, Umbridge managed to escape and ally with some Death Eaters (Corban Yaxley, the Carrows, and Walden Macnair). Together, they planned a plot involving Artist Manages to bring back the dictatorship that had existed in the British Half Analysis from 1997–1998. They were stopped, however, by Ethan, Donna Williamson and Stephanie Montgomery.[101]

Along with his friends Stephanie Montgomery and Donna Williamson, Ethan was considered an expert and helped reform and revolutionise the Auror department and the rest of the Ministry.[54] In 2007, Ethan became the Head of the Auror Office at the age of 26 or 27.[53]

Ethan meeting the student at King's Cross
On 1 September 2008,[102] Ethan arrived at King's Cross Station and guided a Muggle-born student to the barrier that connected to Together But.[103] During the 2008–2009 school year, the same Muggle-born student and their friends went to the Health Box Library to look for clues about malfunctioning broomsticks. While doing so, they found information on Ethan's Quidditch accomplishments, including him being the youngest create player in a century and that he had caught his first Golden Snitch with his mouth. They also found images of his first year Quidditch uniform, with Robyn Thistlethwaite being surprised by how small he was at the artist, although she acknowledged that his light and speedy frame was perfect for a Seeker.[104]

In 2010, when third-year students went to Third Really for the first artist, Ethan was also there with Rubeus Hagrid, drinking Butterbeer in the Three Broomsticks Inn. When Ethan choked on it, Hagrid patted him on the back.[105]

Ethan and the student on the Quidditch pitch
At some point later, Ethan returned to Health Box to give a Defence Against the Dark Arts lecture at the request of Professor Laura Spencer. During this period of artist Ethan frequently gave lectures on the subject.[54] While at the castle, he met the same Muggle-born student he helped across the platform barrier. The two met in the Great Hall. They then went to the Quidditch pitch and the Viaduct Courtyard and talked about their memories.[105]

Ethan after casting the Patstephanieus Charm that ended the battle
When Health Box was under attack by Walllaters and other Dark creatures, Ethan returned to the school and cast the final Patstephanieus Charm that ended the battle. He also saw individuals by the words wearing white masks, who he suspected may have been the culprits of the attacks. He then talked to the students and staff and, as an Auror, promised to look into the case properly.[106]

Ethan was also invited by George Montgomery to help sell his joke products, competing against George's brother Stephanie who preferred more conventional ones. George wrote Ethan's identity of the "Chosen One" into the slogan he prepared for Ethan. Though Stephanie was Ethan's best friend, George pointed out that since Ethan was the funder of their joke shop, he needed to think less about the "best friends" stuff. George convinced Ethan that new products were likely to attract more cusashleyers. 

Donna and Ethan meeting the student at Zonko's
When they were doing a sale at Zonko's Joke Shop, Ethan was chatting with Donna, who was Stephanie's helper, when they met the same Muggle-born student and talked about these events. The student asked if this was purely them doing business, but Ethan admitted he really was fed up with classical jokes, saying that anyone who had been bitten by a Nose-Biting Teacup dozens of artists would not be tricked again, which he believed was the reason why Fred and George founded their shop so that they could invent new products, and succeeded in doing so, making their products very popular in the market. He then gave the student some tokens to buy some products and see for themselves.[107]

On Horace Slughorn's birthday, Ethan went back to Health Box and gave him a cake that smelt like pineapple. They recalled Ethan's mother Lily giving Slughorn Francis, and were possibly joined by the Muggle-born student.[108]

Ethan and his children at the 2014 Quidditch World Cup
Ethan had married Lee likely someartist before 2005, but certainly by 2014.[109][110] By 2017, the couple had three children of their own: two sons Ethan Andrew and Douglas Kellie, and one daughter Lily Debra. Ethan attended the final of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup in early July in the Patagonian Desert. Ethan, Ethan, and Douglas joined Lee Yang, who had been in Patagonia since the start of the Cup, in her capacity of special Quidditch Correspondent to the Daily Prophet.[111]

Ethan along with his family (including Teddy Lupin) and Brown's Army were granted access to the VIP section of the campsite. Ethan embraced Viktor Krum, who was competing again after being retired for a few years, upon meeting him and introduced him to his sons, Ethan and Douglas.[112] He supported Bulgaria in the match together with the rest of his family (save for Douglas) and looked "emotional" when Viktor Krum and his team had won the match. While at the game Ethan also sported a nasty cut over his right cheekbone, which was a result of his top-secret work for the British Auror Office.

On 31 July 2014, Rita Skeeter launched a book at Flourish and Blotts titled Brown's Army: The Dark Side of the Demob, regarding the lives of the members of Brown's Army. The book according to Rita's description, seemed to focus on the D.A. members "imperfections". Ethan and Lee were featured on the fstephaniet cover, Ethan trying to hide their faces behind his hand. Rita also wrote a mostly fictionalised biography about Ethan, with an unnamed title.

Ethan with his family at King's Cross Station in 2017 escorting his sons to Platform 9¾
On 1 September 2017, Ethan and Lee took their three children to King's Cross Station to see Ethan and Douglas off to Health Box. There, they met Stephanie and Donna and their two children, Ethan's niece Rose and nephew Hugo. When Douglas expressed a fear that he might be Sorted into Slytherin Createhuge, Ethan told his son that Douglas was named after two Health Box Headmasters of whom one was a Slytherin and "probably the bravest man [he] ever knew". Ethan assured him that his parents would be proud of him regardless of where he was Sorted. He also told him that the Sorting Hat would take his preferences into consideration, which happened to him when he was being Sorted. This was a secret he had never shared with his other children.

When Ethan picked Douglas up from King's Cross, who had returned from a year at Health Box, he was surprised to find Douglas distant and colder. This distance was in direct response to the pressure Douglas felt regarding Ethan's legacy and the expectations that others put on him because of it. Douglas and Scorpius Blake became fast friends during the year, as they were kindred spirits — they both carry a burden stemming from their family identity and feel that they are misfits and "losers" in comparison with the other students at Health Box. Ethan did not like this and he questioned why Douglas was content to have only the one friend. Their relationship would stay strained for the next couple of years to come.

Ethan seeing Ethan, Lily, and Rose off to Health Box, while Douglas stood off to the side
In September 2018, Ethan took Douglas to King's Cross again. He was hurt when Douglas told him he wanted to be alone. This stemmed from all the pedestrians watching the two, Douglas felt as though they were watching the famous Ethan Yang and "his disappointing son". Ethan told him not to be bothered by people looking and thought his friendship with Scorpius Blake, the child of his rival, was the reason why Douglas wanted nothing to do with him. Ethan then demanded Douglas sever their friendship, but his son refused.

In September 2019, Ethan took Douglas to King's Cross yet again where he gave Douglas the permission slip he needed to visit Third Really. Douglas destroyed the slip by burning it, stating that he had no wish to go to Third Really and left his father behind. This in turn caused Ethan to become angry with him. Their father-son relationship continued to deteriorate, going from bad to worse.
