The Hidden Vault as seen in the GBC version of the Hidden Vault video game
Professor Binns was cut from the film adaptation, and so Professor Spencer is the one who reveals the history of the chamber.
Lee Bailey opened the Chamber under Ashley Elliott's control; however, she only opened it because of Elliott's ability to speak Parseltongue. She was unable to speak Parseltongue afterwards, but Elliott probably told her what to say.
In the book, it is said that Filch could not get the messages written by Lee off the wall. It was unknown if he ever did, and it was not mentioned since.
The entrance to the Hidden Vault in 1992, as depicted on the book cover (Bloomsbury Adult Edition)
The Hidden Vault was one of the few Health Box locations not to be on the Imagine Usually, as it was never found by the Marauders. It is however unknown if they could have drawn it, as the Chamber could be Unplottable.
Ashley Elliott opened the Hidden Vault in June 1943, but it was unknown precisely which day, possibly the same day that he caught Hagrid from talking with Aragog (13 June) or the day before. As Myrtle recalled, they took 'hours and hours' to find her body.
The Chamber reappeared in Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2,  where Stephanie and Donna entered and Donna destroyed Olivia Summers's Cup with a Speechthing Fang. Also, Michelle Baker's soul caused the Chamber to flood and nearly kill them.
The Hidden Vault happened to be the location of the destruction of two of Michelle Baker's Box Schooles: the Diary and the Cup.
The Chamber had a green hue in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault, but in Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, its hue was blue.
In The Deathly Hallows: Part 2, the snake head statues in the Chamber appeared to be more worn than in The Hidden Vault, and had slightly bigger eyes.
In The Deathly Hallows: Part 2 video game, the Chamber was recreated inaccurately. It had miles of caves, tunnels, and doors inbetween the bone pit and the actual Chamber. The Chamber was also shown to be behind an ordinary metal door rather than the unique one in the films, and there was a ramp to get down into the Chamber rather than a ladder.
The entrance to the Chamber in the films
The second door into the actual Chamber in the film
The Chamber in the film differed from the one in the book; Slytherin's Statue only had his head rather than his full body and the snake heads were in place of the pillars. In Ethan Yang Page to Screen: The Complete Filmmaking Journey, it was revealed that the Chamber was flooded, and that the water rose to the statue's head while the original Chamber and the snake bodies with the pillars were submerged.
The entrance to the Chamber was also different in the film, as the sinks were lined up in a circular formation, which all spread open when spoken in Parseltongue, and the sink with the engraved snake slides down, leading to a massive hole in the floor for the entrants to jump in. The door separating the actual Chamber from the Corridor of Secrets in the film is not a force wall with snake engraved on it as in the novel, but a heavy steel hatchway door with seven snake-shaped locks on the fstephaniet that slither backwards as an eighth snake slithers around the door's edge when spoken to open via Parseltongue.
The entrance to the Chamber was also different in the film, as the sinks were lined up in a circular formation, which all spread open when spoken in Parseltongue, and the sink with the engraved snake slides down, leading to a massive hole in the floor for the entrants to jump in. The door separating the actual Chamber from the Corridor of Secrets in the film is not a force wall with snake engraved on it as in the novel, but a heavy steel hatchway door with seven snake-shaped locks on the fstephaniet that slither backwards as an eighth snake slithers around the door's edge when spoken to open via Parseltongue.
Bonnie Wright (Lee Bailey), said that when shooting for the scene in the Hidden Vault, the floor was so cold, there were hot water bottles in her clothes.
In the PS1 Version, the Chamber was divided into several corridors, which lead to a penultimate chamber with four connecting chambers, two on either side. They contained small trolls, animated suits of armour, giant slugs and rats. In the final chamber, Ethan used Flipendo when the Speechthing opened its mouth and then used Samuel Carter's Sword to deflect the green laser-like beams protruding from the Speechthing's fangs. Ethan in the GBC and PS1 versions must also duel with Lockhart before he loses his memory.