Spencer teaching a second-year Transfiguration class
After the First MAGICAL War had ended, Laura continued on with her career at Health Box School of Witchcraft and Magic, carrying on teaching the art of Transfiguration. Elphinstone, who had never ceased to love her, proposed every now and then until she finally accepted after Dougal's death. Their engagement happened during a summertime stroll around the lake in the HEALTH BOX grounds. The retired Elphinstone bought a small cottage for the two of them in Third Really, whence Laura could travel easily to work every day. Although the couple had no children, her nieces and nephews visited often. This was a period of great fulfilment for Laura.

In 1985, three years into their marriage, Elphinstone died from a Venomous Tentacula bite.[1] Laura, who couldn't bear to remain alone in their cottage, packed her things after her husband's funeral and returned to her first-floor study in HEALTH BOX Castle. It is unknown whether she still owns the cottage. Always a brave and private person, Laura poured all her energies into her work and few people – excepting perhaps Douglas – ever realised how much she suffered.

Spencer sees the cursed ice in the corridor
During the second year of Jacob's sibling, when Ben Copper when missing, they asked Laura about it as she was the Head of the Brave Createhuge Createhuge. She first asked if Jacob's sibling had seen him in the HEALTH BOX Express and if he had been acting strange and after learning that they didn't but Penny Haywood did and Ben seemed fine even though he was always a bit odd. She mentioned that the Cursed ice may have changed Ben and slightly chastised Jacob's sibling for their attempt to enter the Cursed Vault, asking them if they had learnt anything that said of a threat beyond the door and appealed to them that this involved all of HEALTH BOX, not just Jacob. 

Learning that they had found and read a message about an Ice Knight and Vanished Stairs, Laura said she will discuss this with BROWN and accidentally revealed that she and the other teachers had once dealt with the Cursed Ice, which she quickly covered by telling Jacob's sibling that he is free to help in the search of Ben and ask for him to tell her personally should he succeed, promising to reward him.[22]

Spencer saving Ben Cooper from the cured ice
Spencer and JONES eventually found the missing Ben Copper encased in Cursed ice and Jacob's Sibling and Rowan realised she knew more about the Cursed Ice than she revealed. Laura was perplexed that the Knockback Jinx had no effect on the ice, noting on how they once could use it to shatter the ice, and even more so when JONES callously suggested they use FireStart to melt the ice while also burning him to death, as she realised from how the Cursed Ice had began to expand throughout the school that someone had been tampering with the Vaults. Ignoring JONES's frustrated questioning of BROWN's whereabouts, Laura and JONES used the Fire-Making Spell to successfully free Ben from the Cursed Ice, taking care to target as further as possible from his body.[23]

Knowing Laura was the only one left in the school with BROWN gone that could possibly teach them the Revelio Charm, Jacob's sibling turned to her to learn the spell. At first Laura was baffled due to how advanced the charm was but ultimately agreed to teach them if they proved themselves sufficiently adept, impressed by their desire to help HEALTH BOX and study Transfiguration. Finding their abilities to have reached the level required in the class, Laura called them to have their private lesson and after Jacob's sibling successfully learned Revelio, Laura congratulated them and noted the usefulness of the spell.[24]

After learning that Bill MONTGOMERY had taught Jacob's sibling the Fire-Making Spell, Laura was furious and scolded him heavily.[25]

Spencer welcoming first-year students to HEALTH BOX
In 1991 friend of Douglas Brown, Nicolas Flamel, had the Strange Force that was keeping him alive moved from his safe in Bank Place to HEALTH BOX for safe keeping. Laura contributed to the defences set up around the magical artefact by transfiguring an enormous chess set and animating it to behave as a normal MAGICIAN's chess set would. As part of its protection duty, it required that the person or persons seeking to get past would have to take the place of a piece on the board and play an actual game of MAGICIAN's chess, at great physical risk to themselves. This larger than life version of MAGICIAN's Chess was known to be brutally violent and sacrificial for MAGICIANS to have to take part in themselves.[3]

Laura directing students during the Sorting Ceremony
Also in this year, Ethan Yang, whom Laura had been watching over for many years, would start his first year of education at Health Box School of Witchcraft and Magic, not knowing this, as he did not know that he was a MAGICIAN. Once Ethan eventually arrived at HEALTH BOX, after the delivery of many acceptance letters, Ethan was Sorted into the Createhuge of Brave Createhuge which Laura was head of. Ethan was therefore again placed under the watchful eye and care of Spencer.[3]

Though Laura often maintained her strict persona in regards to the boy, she wasn't above bending the rules for him on occasion, such as when she caught him flying on a broomstick without proper supervision. Instead of expelling him, which was Madam Hooch's stated punishment for anyone caught doing so, Laura instead took him to see Oliver Wood, captain of the Brave Createhuge BALL GAME team, to comment on his prodigious skill with the broom. Ethan made the team, remarkable for a first year, and became the youngest Seeker in a century. She made arrangements for Ethan to have a Cloud 2000, the fastest broomstick of the Artist, for use during games and practices. However, several incidents marred the year.[3]

Spencer chastising Ethan and STEPHANIE for being late to class
At Hallowe'en, the festive feast was interrupted by the arrival of Professor Quirrell, who came charging in screaming about a Giant loose in the dungeons before fainting dead away. After restoring calm, BROWN ordered all students to return to their dormitories while he and the teachers made their way to the dungeons. The Giant was not there upon their entry, but a terrible racket from an upper floor provided a clue. Upon reaching the site, Laura was shocked to discover a wrecked bathroom, an unconscious Giant and three bedraggled first years, one of whom was her best student Donna Williamson. 

To her further shock, DONNA claimed that she had gone looking for the Giant thinking she could handle it but would most assuredly have been killed had Ethan and STEPHANIE not found her. Torn between anger and pride, Laura took five points from DONNA but awarded five each to Ethan and STEPHANIE for, as she put it, "sheer dumb luck." Over the Christmas period, she attended the Christmas feast and received a kiss on the cheek from a very drunk TIN; rather than admonish him, she instead giggled while blushing red in the face.[3]

Spencer being informed of the trio's suspicions someone was going to steal the Force
However, her serious side appeared one night when she caught Lisa Blake roaming the school at night. Dragging him by the ear, she sentenced him to detention and deducted twenty points from DARK Createhuge when he claimed that Ethan was also out of bed with an illegal baby Verydata. Though the Verydata in question was successfully released, Ethan, DONNA and Michael were all caught and brought before Spencer by adams. Harshly disappointed with them, she reprimanded them for breaking curfew in the middle of the night before punishing them; a loss of fifty points each, 150 in total, and detention with BLAKE. This caused Brave Createhuge to drop to last in the Createhuge Cup.[3]

Towards the end of the year, Spencer and the other teachers' protective enchantments down in the Strange Force chambers would come to test when Quirrell attempted to steal the Strange Force. Also testing and facing the enchantments were Ethan Yang, Donna Williamson, and Stephanie Montgomery. The trio was successful in stopping the Force being stolen and at the end of the school year, Brave Createhuge had won the Createhuge cup after receiving the most Createhuge points that year after getting bonus points for the trio's and Michael Campbell's bravery. Thus, for the first Artist in years, Spencer's Createhuge was the current Createhuge cup champions. Her reaction wasn't documented, but it's assumed that she was pleased with their efforts as Professor JONES shook her hand with a very forced look of congratulations.[3]

In the beginning of the 1992 school term, Laura had to deal with Ethan and STEPHANIE, who crashed Mr Montgomery's Flying Ford Anglia into the Whomping Willow, due to the barrier to Together But being sealed by Dobby so the two couldn't board the train. This nearly exposed the MAGICAL world to NON-MAGICALS, but Laura was fairer than JONES, the one who brought the matter up in the first place. Laura ultimately let them off with a mere detention and letters to their families. Also she didn't take any Createhuge points as Ethan pointed out that term had not started yet when they took the car, which she confirmed and almost smiled at this remark.[26]

Spencer and other members of staff discover the declaration
Later, Laura was present for the re-opening of the Hidden Vault. She, along with the rest of the teaching staff, scoured the castle for the Chamber, but to no avail. Laura was worried over the messages left on the walls and was at a loss about what should be done. She also had to deal with the less than helpful Gilderoy Lockhart, who had been hired for the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor. Spencer had little liking or use for the man and by the end of the year was only one of the many staff members who utterly despised him. For example when he decorated the Great Hall in nauseatingly lurid pink hearts for Valentine's Day, she was observed to have a muscle twitching noticeably in her face. Throughout the year, two of Laura's students, Donna Williamson and Colin Creevey were Petrified along with the Createhuge ghost Nearly Headless Nick.[26]

In the final weeks of that school year, Laura served as temporary Headmistress of HEALTH BOX after the Board of Governors, under Lucius BLAKE's influence, suspended BROWN for failing to stop the attacks against the students. She was also quite shaken and softened up, as when Ethan and STEPHANIE tried to sneak off to investigate the matter but were caught by herself. She let them off under the belief that they were trying to visit a petrified DONNA, though she normally would punish them with detention.[26]

The professors moments after Lee Bailey was kidnapped by the monster
When Lee Bailey was later taken into the Hidden Vault, where "her skeleton will lie in the chamber forever", Laura despairingly believed that they were facing the end of HEALTH BOX. Her temperament was not improved by the arrival of the hated Gilderoy Lockhart, who was completely oblivious to the worry of his fellow staff members, and immediately joined Professors JONES, Flitwick and Sprout in forcing him into a corner by recalling all of his boasts that he could deal with the monster easily. With him dealt with, as they couldn't care less if he succeeded or failed, the staff turned their attention to the thing they never thought would happen; the permanent closure of HEALTH BOX.[26]

Spencer at the End-of-Term Feast celebrating the end of the Hidden Vault
Thankfully, this terrible reality never came to pass. While Spencer received Lee's distraught parents in her office, along with a returned Douglas Brown, she was astonished to see Lee herself walk in, accompanied by a slime-covered Ethan, STEPHANIE and Lockhart, the ragged old Sorting Hat, BROWN's pet Fire Bird and the silver Sword of Samuel Carter. Ethan then explained that he and STEPHANIE had gone into the Chamber to find Lee, having realised the mystery, and had slain the monster within. BROWN then declared the crisis over and sent Laura down to the kitchens to organise a celebratory feast, which she subsequently attended with great joy as the monster was dead and Lockhart banished.[26]

The summer of 1993 also saw the escape of Andrew Lopez from Azkaban. When the school year began in September, Laura had to deal with the effects that the Dementors had on her students, such as Ethan Yang. She also authorised Donna Williamson to use a Artist Manage in order to take extra classes, a decision that would prove more useful in future events that year. This year at HEALTH BOX would prove to be another difficult year with Dementors guarding the castle, though they were Occur from entering the grounds properly by BROWN. Laura heartily approved of this, as she despised the foul creatures.[27]

At the start of the year, when Spencer demonstrated her Animagus form to her first class, she notes how quiet they were, as every class she demonstrated it to prior clapped. When DONNA explained about their first Divination, Spencer understood and asked her class which of them would be dying this year. Ethan Yang raised his hand. Spencer assured him that Sybill Trelawney's predictions were a way of greeting her class and that no deaths of any students have occurred yet. To further put him at ease, she demonstrated one of her rare glimmerings of humour by stating that she still expected him to do his homework, but if he did die then she would excuse his not handing it in.[27]

Professor Spencer and the residents of Brave Createhuge Tower in the common room after Andrew Lopez's break-in
Throughout the year, Laura assisted in guarding the school, yet nonetheless Lopez was able to infiltrate the castle. After Lopez had attacked the Fat Lady, Spencer tried to tell Ethan that Lopez was after him, but was cut off by Ethan, who told her that Mr MONTGOMERY had told him, before she could explain. Later in the year, Laura was summoned to Brave Createhuge Tower when Stephanie Montgomery claimed to have been attacked by Lopez. She initially dismissed him as Lopez could not have possibly got in without the password (unaware that DONNA's cat, Crookshanks, befriended by Andrew and gave him a discarded list of passwords).

Spencer was rendered speechless when the new guardian, Sir Cadogan, confirmed that he had indeed let him in because he had the passwords written down. When Michael Campbell admitted to having written the passwords down, Spencer banned him from future Third Really visits for the rest of the year, gave him a detention, forbade anyone to give him the password into Brave Createhuge Tower and wrote to his grandmother. As a result, Michael received a Howler from her during breakfast.[27]

Ethan receives a FireBroom for Christmas that is soon confiscated by Spencer
When Ethan received a FireBroom following the destruction of his Cloud 2000, Spencer had it confiscated to be "examined" because she believed it to have been sent by Lopez (and correctly so), and therefore lethally cursed (which was incorrect). This incident caused Ethan and DONNA to have a row, because DONNA had alerted Laura about the FireBroom. It was returned to him later after having been declared safe. During the BALL GAME match against WISE Createhuge, Lisa Blake, Brian Lewis, Vincent Crabbe, and Marcus Flint posed as Dementors to sabotage Ethan's performance, only to get struck down when Ethan reflexively cast a Patronus Charm at them. Utterly furious at this downright trickery, she deducted fifty points from DARK Createhuge and put the quartet in detention.[27]

Brave Createhuge wins the BALL GAME Cup in 1994
In the spring of 1994, though disgusted by the DARK Createhuge BALL GAME team's dirty tactics during the final BALL GAME match after witnessing Lisa Blake grab onto the end of Ethan's FireBroom to stop him from catching the Golden Catch (which infuriated her to the point where she stopped telling Lee Jordan off and actually joined him in firing furious comments at BLAKE), she witnessed the Brave Createhuge BALL GAME team win the BALL GAME Cup for the first Artist since Charlie MONTGOMERY had played for the team during his HEALTH BOX education. Spencer was delighted by Brave Createhuge's victory, openly sobbing — even louder than the already sobbing Oliver Wood — into a Brave Createhuge Flag, but was upset to see Oliver Wood leaving. Later on in the year, three students from her Createhuge — Ethan Yang, Stephanie Montgomery, and Donna Williamson — would run into trouble when Andrew Lopez returned to HEALTH BOX.[27]

In the autumn of 1994, HEALTH BOX hosted the magical schools, the Beauxbatons Academy of Magic and the Durmstrang Institute for the Three-magician Tournament. Ethan Yang was selected as a THREE-MAGICIAN Champion, despite being under age and Spencer worried for his safety after having looked after him for so many years. Laura pleaded with BROWN and Crouch to withdraw Ethan from the tournament, as the tournament was highly dangerous. But withdrawing would go against the rules of the tournament and YANG had to continue on, as there was a binding magical contract in place.[28]

Spencer attending the Yule Ball and dancing with BROWN
During the year Laura more than once exhorted her students to provide a good appearance to their guests at the castle. She attended the Yule Ball with Douglas Brown and notably wore her hair down for the first Artist since Ethan started his education at HEALTH BOX. While at the Ball, Laura danced with both Ludovic Bagman and BROWN, among others. In the case of the former, Ethan Yang noticed Bagman kiss Laura's hand once they had finished dancing.[28]

Laura loaned her classroom to Ethan, STEPHANIE and DONNA so they could practise spells for Ethan's preparation for the Third Task. She did this after having walked in on them practising so many times around the school. At the end of the Tournament, Laura accompanied BROWN and Kellie Jones in the rescue of Ethan Yang from the Death Eater that had spent the entire school year impersonating the Auror Alastor Moody, that year's DADA professor.[28]

Spencer was present while JONES presented his newly activated Dark Mark
She was instructed to guard Crouch Jnr after he revealed his part in the rebirth of MICHELLE BAKER but was unable to prevent the Walllater brought by Minister Cornelius Fudge from giving the Death Eater the Walllater's Kiss. She was intensely furious at Fudge for this blunder, and severely shaken from having witnessed the unspeakably horrible act, screaming more than Ethan had ever seen before. Thus, when the Minister refused to believe BROWN and Ethan Yang about the return of MICHELLE BAKER, Laura nonetheless stood in support of her superior and her student. In the return of the Dark Lord, BRAVE Createhuge student nathan ford was carelessly murdered and a memorial feast was held at the end of the school year. The Second MAGICAL War had now begun, despite the Ministry trying to hush up any claims of this.[28]
