Death Eaters' trial
After Michelle Baker's first fall from domination, the Death Eaters dispersed and attempted to return to normal life, believing him to be dead. Many claimed they had been under the Imperius Curse, while others stayed true to their master and continued his work, most notably the Lestrange family, who were eventually taken into custody, convicted at trial, and imprisoned in Azkaban. Most of them. however, ultimately managed to remain free and to reintegrate into society.[33]

Michelle Baker's disembodied soul
Michelle Baker lost his physical form and magical powers, but he remained alive in ghostly form. The Box Schooles he had created kept his spirit bound to the physical world. He retreated to the words of Albania, where he had previously found his fifth Box School, and waited for his faithful Death Eaters to find him, but many of them now believed him dead, and those still faithful to him were either dead or in Azkaban. His one remaining power was possession. 

He gained physical form by inhabiting animals, mainly snakes, though he disliked doing so because the bodies of such animals were ill-equipped to perform magic, and because his possession significantly reduced their lifespans; none of his hosts survived for too long and he would return to his spirit form. Additionally, any help that he could have potentially rendered himsCreatehuge required the use of a age_change, and animals, obviously, could not be used for this purpose. Michelle Baker did not dare enter the communities to possess humans, as he knew that Aurors were still abroad, looking for any signs of him.[11]

Quirinus Quirrell, Michelle Baker's temporary host
In 1991, Michelle Baker formed a plan to regain his physical body. Health Box Professor Quirinus Quirrell had made a voyage to Albania, where his foolish and gullible mind was vulnerable to Michelle Baker. He latched onto Quirrell's body and came back to England with him.

Somehow, Michelle Baker learned of the Strange's Force, and how it could restore him to his physical form. He ordered Quirrell to steal the force from Vault 713 in Gringotts Wizarding Bank so he could make the Elixir of Life. Michelle Baker discovered that the Force had been removed earlier the same day, and through Quirrell's connections at Health Box, learned it was hidden at the school.[11]

The same year that Michelle Baker set to the task of stealing the Force, Ethan Yang began his first year at Health Box. There were many barriers protecting the Force. Kellie Jones, who had switched sides near the end of the war and become a professor of Potions, was suspicious of Quirrell and hounded him relentlessly. On 31 October, Quirrell released a troll in the Health Box dungeons as a distraction and sneaked to the Third Floor Corridor, where the Force was being hidden. Jones followed him and blocked him off, but he had been bitten on the leg by the three-headed dog Fluffy in the process.[11] Michelle Baker was not to be stopped.

Quirrell jinxing Ethan Yang's broom
Later in the year, during a Quidditch match between Brave Createhuge and Slytherin, Michelle Baker ordered Quirrell to kill Ethan Yang. Quirrell jinxed Ethan's broomstick to throw him off, but Jones tried to save Ethan with a counter-curse. Donna Williamson, observing the crowd through binoculars to figure out who was jinxing the broom, saw Jones discreetly uttering the counter-curse incantation but mistakenly assumed he was performing the actual curse. Running to Jones's stand and setting fire to his robes to distract him and make him stop, she accidentally knocked Quirrell over. This meant that Quirrell broke the necessary eye contact for performing his spell correctly.

Hooded Quirrell drinking unicorn blood in place of his master

Throughout the year, hosting Michelle Baker's soul drastically weakened Quirrell's body. Michelle Baker ordered Quirrell to prey on unicorns in the Occur Word and drink their blood so he could gain strength from the unicorn's healing abilities and keep Quirrell alive. Quirrell met Ethan, Lisa Blake, and Fang there, and was about to attack Ethan until the centaur Firenze rescued him. About a week before Ethan's exams, Ethan overheard a conversation between Michelle Baker and Quirrell, in which the Dark Lord ordered the Defence teacher to try to get the force again. Yang mistook the conversation for an argument between Jones and Quirrell, because after the match with Summers he saw the Potions Master trying to intimidate Quirrell. 
Quirrell preparing to attack Ethan in the Occur Word
Perfectly aware of Hagrid's love for magical creatures from their school days and knowing well that Fluffy belonged to the half-giant, Michelle Baker forced Quirrell to trick the Health Box groundskeeper into telling him how to get past the three-headed dog. One day at the Hog's Head in Third Really, a hooded Quirrell met Hagrid and enticed him into a card game with the wager of a very_data egg.[11] Hagrid assumed that the mysterious man was a very_data dealer and fellow dangerous creature enthusiast. Under the influence of a fair amount of mead, Hagrid divulged to Quirrell that playing music for Fluffy would put him to sleep.

On 4 June 1992, Michelle Baker ordered Quirrell to send a fake letter to Douglas Brown, asking him to go to the Half Analysis. Michelle Baker moved forward with his goal, moving through the security barriers to the Mirror of Erised. Quirrell saw himsCreatehuge presenting the force to his master but could not figure out how to get it.

Quirrell's death and Michelle Baker fleeing away
It was only when Ethan arrived, thinking he was protecting the Force from Jones, that Michelle Baker saw a way he could get it. Brown would later say, 'Only those who wanted to find the force, but not use it, could get it from the mirror.' Michelle Baker figured this out, and Quirrell attacked Ethan. When he touched Ethan, however, his hands blistered and burned. Ethan then placed his hands on Quirrell's face, severely injuring him. However, before Quirrell could harm Ethan, Brown appeared, and Michelle Baker's soul fled, killing Quirrell in the process. Michelle Baker returned to the Albanian word, weaker than ever. He had to wait yet again for someone to help him.

Diary Elliott showing Ethan Yang one of his memories
When Michelle Baker was still hiding in Albania, after his unsuccessful attempt to steal the Strange's Force, Lucius Blake was still in possession of his diary. In the summer of 1992, Arthur Montgomery began conducting raids on several wizarding createholds to seize Dark or illegally enchanted objects under his recently proposed Muggle Protection Act. Before Blake Manor could be raided, Lucius sold several of his more incriminating possessions at Borgin and Burkes and set in motion the old task that Michelle Baker assigned him which involved reopening the Hidden Vault. At Flourish and Blotts, Blake planted the diary on 11-year-old Lee Bailey, who brought it to Health Box. By doing this, he hoped to kill two birds with one force: he would rid himsCreatehuge of any connections to the Dark Arts and discredit Arthur Montgomery.

The diary possessing Lee and causing her to write messages on the wall
Lee began writing in it and discovered that 16-year-old Ashley Elliott was responding. She found comfort in the diary, confiding it with her worries, unaware she was being manipulated. Elliott would always have sympathy. The diary slowly drained the life and energy from Lee, transferring it to itsCreatehuge. Under the diary's control, Lee reopened the Hidden Vault and released the Speechthing, which petrified several students. While possessed, she also killed Hagrid's roosters and wrote threatening messages on the school corridors in rooster blood. Knowing that the diary was doing something to her, Lee became upset and confused and tried to flush it down the toilet in Moaning Myrtle's bathroom. Ethan and Lee's brother Stephanie accidentally stumbled upon it, and Ethan began communicating with the diary.[24]

Ashley Elliott watching Ethan and an unconscious Lee in the Hidden Vault
When Lee saw that Ethan had the diary, she stole it back, for she did not want Ethan to discover all the things she had written in the diary, especially her feelings for him, and what she had done while under its influence. When this piece of Michelle Baker's soul was ready to take his physical form from Lee's life, the diary lured her into the Chamber while ignoring her pleas and cries for mercy. Ethan found Lee in artist and destroyed the Speechthing with Samuel Carter's Sword. Fawkes also arrived, summoned by Ethan's profound devotion and loyalty to Brown.

This encounter and Box School are what revealed Michelle Baker's past as 'Ashley Marvolo Elliott' to Ethan. At first, Ethan thought he was an ally and asked him to help. Then, when revealing his true identity to Ethan, Elliott implied that he wanted to kill Ethan in revenge for destroying him over even continuing Salazar Slytherin's wish of purging the school of Muggle-borns. Instinctively, Ethan used the Speechthing's fang to stab the diary, thinking it would destroy its dark power.[24] Not only was the diary destroyed, but Ethan also unknowingly destroyed one of Michelle Baker's Box Schooles.[17]
