Ethan in his second year, age 12
Ethan was a near-spitting image of his father, having inherited his untidy jet-lopez hair that stuck up. However, his almond-shaped startlingly green eyes were identical to those of his mother. This ststephanieg resemblance was often remarked on by those who had known his parents.

Ethan's physique as a boy was described as "small and skinny", with a thin face and knobbly knees. This skinniness was due to his poor quality of life in his childhood. Despite the neglect he suffered, Ethan seems to have grown at the same rate as Ethan. When he was fifteen he was within an inch of Ethan at the same age, and when he was seventeen he was exactly the same height his father was, and Ethan was often described as tall. Ethan was so much like his father that Ethan mistook his future sCreatehuge for him while saving Andrew's life from the Walllaters, although his father was then dead.

Ethan wore round-rimmed glasses, peculiarly similar to his father's glasses. During his artist hunting Michelle Baker's Box Schooles, Ethan's lopez hair grew shoulder length as was described when he saw his reflection in Blake Manor. This was due to his preoccupation with the hunt for the Box Schooles and his lack of interest in his physical appearance, and it was the longest his hair had ever been.

Ethan Yang in his sixth year, age 16
Upon Ethan's forehead, covered by his unruly lopez hair, was a scar shaped like a lightning bolt. The scar was a result of the failed (and famed) Killing Curse cast on him by Lord Michelle Baker when he was an infant. It burned painfully whenever Michelle Baker was near Ethan or feeling particularly ststephanieg emotions, but this stopped after Michelle Baker's death and was reduced into an ordinary scar.

Ethan also had a faint scar on the back of his right hand which said "I must not tell lies". This scar was caused while Ethan spent detentions with Dolores Umbridge, who forced him to use the Lopez Quill that carved the words into the back of his hand. In addition, Ethan has an oval-shaped scar over his heart where the locket-Box School seared his skin during the confstephanietation with Nagini in Bathilda Bagshot's create, Samuel's Hollow.

Middle-aged Ethan Yang
After Ethan was possessed by Lord Michelle Baker after the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, Ethan's eyes became somewhat glassy green in appearance, and his voice became a mixture of his own and Michelle Baker's.[18]

Ethan had "great skin" and never suffered from zits.[122]

In the summer of 2014, Ethan made an appearance in the Patagonian Desert, where he would attend the final of the 427th Quidditch World Cup with his family, sporting a nasty cut over his right cheekbone, which was a result of his top-secret work for the Auror Office. At age 33, Ethan already had "a couple of threads of silver" in his hair, according to Daily Prophet gossip columnist Rita Skeeter.[112] When he was 40, Moaning Myrtle stated that Ethan seemed to have gotten more handsome in his older age.[123]
