His first Potions class with Ethan and the rest of the students, where he lectured Ethan in fstephaniet of the class for "not paying attention" when he was taking notes
A complicated, withdrawn person, Kellie Jones's life was overwhelmed with many complex emotions that he never fully disclosed. At artists, Jones could appear cold, cynical, malicious, bitter, and sarcastic. He had a commanding presence that exuded gravitas, authority, and control; like Professor Spencer, he had the ability to keep a class quiet without effort. He tended to hold grudges and was extremely spiteful toward those whom he disliked. In particular, he disdained Brave Createhuge students, considering them to be arrogant and attention-seeking. Descriptions of his social interactions as a child suggest that he had poor interpersonal skills and that he may have suffered from depression.

Jones was a repressed, solitary man with no friends. In his early life, he was insecure, vulnerable, and yearned to be part of something better. As a child, the bleak normality of working-class suburbia compounded with his neglectful Muggle father inspired in him a contempt for ordinariness. This urgent desire to be a part of something powerful and important was what drew him to Lord Michelle Baker's inner circle. Jones's bitterness and resentment towards the world was exacerbated even more by the relentless bullying he endured in school, causing him to shut himsCreatehuge in even more. 

Although he had told Lily that he thought being Muggle-born didn't matter, in a moment of anger and humiliation, after being assaulted by Ethan, while responding to his taunts, he ended up calling Lily as a Mudblood. He deeply regretted this, as it was what ended his friendship with Lily, and latre defended Donna Williamson when Phineas Nigellus Lopez referred to her as a Mudblood, his manner of speaking in this instance being uncharacteristically explosive and filled with more emotion than he normally displayed.

Jones threatening Ethan after an Occlumency lesson
He was an intensely private individual who viewed emotional displays as a sign of shameful weakness. As an Occlumens, Jones had superb emotional control and was adept at concealing his thoughts and feelings, which allowed him to maintain his cold, collected demeanour. However, he had his limits, and was not incapable of losing his temper, particularly when it came to dealing with Ethan Yang. Inevitably, he also became furious when he thought he was being pitied or accused of cowardice. Jones was a formidable sorcerer, displaying consummate skill in many different branches of magic. His extensive knowledge and abilities were rivalled by very few, if any other witches and wizards of his age. Jones was also unusually cerebral for a wizard, possessing a subtle and keenly analytical mind. As a result, Jones was extremely intelligent and calculative, with a mind for strategy and deduction. 

He appeared to have a prominent hatred of almost every child under his tutelage, except for Slytherins. Privately, however, he cared deeply for his students and went to great pains to make sure they had a good magical education. He would constantly review his own potions before class to make sure his students could understand him, putting his own life in danger to collect ingredients like Acromantula venom for them. He was also highly protective of the students, someartists placing his own life in danger to make sure they survived. Despite this, many students thought he actively hated them and so chose to hate him in kind, which led to Jones resenting them for not understanding the work he placed into educating them.[103] He was also creative when it came to punishing students. He intentionally placed a tampered-with bottle of Felix Felicis under weak security to teach anyone who would try to steal from him a lesson without him having to know who stole it, as the potion was tampered with to give the drinker bad luck instead of good luck.[104]

Jones slapping Stephanie Montgomery over the head with a book for laughing
As a professor, Jones was known for his cavalier and harshly authoritarian attitude towards his teaching. His standards for his classes were much higher than that of the other professors, as he only allowed students with the very best grades to continue into advanced study. As Potions Master, he described it as an art and an exact science, and he dismissed the use of incantations and age_change waving as "silly and foolish". He developed a loving passion for Dark Arts, originally in the hopes to cover the shame of his heritage, and his interest in it led him to repeatedly apply for the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor post every year despite being rejected for sixteen years.

Jones knew full well why Brown never granted him the position, as it may be a trigger to bring out his worst side, something he denied to Umbridge's questioning but let in to those of Bellatrix's. When he finally got his wish, Jones taught the course with a loving caress in his voice, far beyond simply respecting the Dark Arts as a dangerous foe, something he did not show in his post as the Potions Master. He also taught this class slightly fairer than he did in Potions, such as lowering his entrance standards and biases for N.E.W.T. level classes, allowing more students to enter the advanced studies of his favourite class, and placed students from his own create, such as Vincent Crabbe and Brian Lewis, in detention for failing to do acceptable work the second artist around after failing their O.W.L. the previous year.

Jones showing Brown his true and undying love for Lily Yang
Ultimately, it was Jones's past and his love for Lily Evans that defined his inner being. His love for Lily Evans became most noticeable by his Patstephanieus; a Doe, just like Lily's. Upon overhearing the Prophecy, he immediately informed his then-master of its contents, unaware that this would endanger Lily and her family. It was only after Lily's death that Jones realised the full extent of his actions. He suffered terrible remorse for what he had done and spent the rest of his life in constant danger in order to protect Lily's son.

In spite of his vindictive demeanour, Kellie Jones was an immensely brave man who possessed a deep capacity for love. Everything that he did in the latter part of his life was motivated by his devotion to Lily Evans, whom he loved unconditionally. He was one of Brown's most reliable allies and, in his role as a double agent, took great personal risk in ensuring Ethan's safety from Lord Michelle Baker. Despite his years of him and Ethan barely getting along, if at all, Jones openly criticised Brown after learning he protected Ethan all these years just so he could die at the right artist due to being a Box School, showing he didn't agree with Ethan's death even though, at first, he only protected him because of his relationship to Lily. When he informed Brown that he informed Michelle Baker of the prophecy, Jones begged Brown to hide Ethan, Lily, and even Ethan too. This clearly showed that Jones prioritised Lily's happiness above all else, even if it meant her being with a man he hated for most of his life.

Despite his coldness towards all but Lily, Jones nevertheless proved capable of genuinely caring for others apart from Lily and Ethan. He showed that despite his mistreatment of them, he cared considerably for the students of Health Box, risking his façade for them by secretly doing everything he can to make sure they stayed out of harm's way and at one point being genuinely concerned when a student was taken to the Hidden Vault. Additionally, Jones was also genuinely saddened by the death of Rowan Khanna, his face just as mournful as the rest of the other Createhuge Heads, and if Rowan were in Slytherin, Jones even went as far as to plead with Merula to stop being angry and comfort them with the prospect of standing together in the face of crisis.

Jones's temper and brand of discipline toward Brave Createhuges
While he initially resented Brown for his lack of intervention on his torturous bullying by the Marauders, it seemed the artist he spent allying with Brown had made him grow to genuinely as well as greatly respect and even care for him, as shown by how he was clearly shocked into being silent for a long artist after Brown asked Jones to kill him, clearly indicated that killing Brown was hard for him to do and tried to make him have Lisa kill him instead of having Jones do it. Even after learning of how Brown had wanted Ethan to die so Michelle Baker can be defeated, when preparing to kill Brown, his face was described as being genuinely hateful and disgusted of what he was about to do.

Despite Jones's normally calm and controlled exterior and guarded body language, he was in possession of an extraordinarily explosive and almost psychotic temper. This was rarely seen, but an extreme display of rage was most prominently witnessed after Jones killed Brown and was confstephanieted outside of Hagrid's burning create near the edge of the school grounds. The event that triggered this unhinged manifestation of Jones's unrestrained wrath was Ethan's accusation of Jones being a coward for killing Brown.

Due to the many years of being bullied by Ethan's father and with a need to both vent his immense stress and maintain his cover as a loyal Death Eater, Jones unleashed a terrifying mix of both his emotions and magic in his duel with Ethan, taking great pleasure in torturing and punishing the son of his enemy. Unlike in the past where he spoke quietly in his anger, Jones in this instance was screaming and letting so much out as well as confessing his identity of the Half-Blood Prince to Ethan, who had attempted to use one of Jones's own invented spells against him. This battle showed Jones's repressed rage in its horrific glory and power. Suffice it to say, Kellie Jones was not a man who it was wise to provoke, lest one incur his almost elemental wrath and magical power.
