DONNA's corporeal Patronus (form of an otter)
DONNA proved to be an extremely powerful and talented young witch. Even before she began her education at HEALTH BOX, she practised some simple spells which all worked.[3] Remus Lupin claimed that DONNA was the cleverest witch of her age he had ever met.[34] Her magical capability easily surpassed almost every single student in her year, challenged only by a select few.

Magical aptitude: At HEALTH BOX, DONNA was usually the first to master any spell and could use spells beyond her educational level.[32] Even as a fourth year, DONNA had taken multiple O.W.L. practice papers, including one in Transfiguration.[58] She earned ten O.W.L.s; nine 'Outstandings', and one 'Exceeds Expectations', in Defence Against the Dark Arts. Ethan Yang was the strongest student in that subject,[36] but even Ethan acknowledged that DONNA was 'the best in our year,' and repeatedly admired her spell work. The Patronus Charm is the only spell she ever struggled with,[59] further showing her exceptional magical capabilities.
DONNA being the first in her class to master the Levitation Charm
DONNA erasing Antonin Dolohov's memories
Charms: DONNA was exceptionally talented with charm-work and some of her most impressive magical feats were charms. In her first year, she effortlessly mastered the Levitation Charm in Charms class, and also quickly learnt how to cast other charms such as the Unlocking Charm and Flashing paint charm without difficulty.[3] She not only achieved an 'Outstanding' O.W.L.[36] but also received a hundred and twelve percent in her first year Charms exam.[3] DONNA enchanted her small handbag with an Undetectable Extension Charm to allow her to carry more items in the bag than physically possible, which allowed her, Ethan and STEPHANIE to survive the months spent out in the open.[10] She managed to cast the Memory Charm successfully multiple times after having only read the theory behind it, affecting Antonin Dolohov and Thorfinn Rowle even when they were subjected to the Cruciatus Curse.[60] DONNA also managed to cast the False Memory Spell on her parents, a charm that was referred to as a 'complex bit of magic' by Douglas Brown in reference to a sixteen year old Ashley Elliott casting it on Morfin Gaunt.[61] During her sixth year, she successfully cast the Confundus Charm on Cormac McLaggen.[62] Her array of protective charms she casted outside their defended her, Ethan, and STEPHANIE for almost a year while they were searching for MICHELLE BAKER's Horcruxes, while several far more experienced MAGICIANS were captured within months.[10] DONNA's speciality was creating portable, waterproof fires. In her first year, she kept these fires in a jar, used them to distract Kellie Jones, whom she thought was jinxing Ethan's broom during his first BALL GAME match, and to attack the Devil's Snare when she, Ethan, and STEPHANIE searched for the Strange Force.[3] In her second year, she used her flames in Moaning Myrtle's bathroom to light the cauldron above one of the toilets while Polyjuice Potion was brewed so that Ethan and STEPHANIE could interrogate Lisa Blake about the Heir of DARK Createhuge.[4] During the Box School hunt, she kept the flames in a jar to keep the trio warm during winter.[10] However, the one charm she had trouble with was the Patronus Charm, something Ethan noted when she tried casting it when he, she and STEPHANIE infiltrated the Half Analysis, perhaps indicating she lacked the self-confidence.[24] That said, she learned how to cast the corporeal Patronus Charm in her fifth year and was the first to master the advanced spell in BROWN's Army under Ethan's tutelage, hers taking the form of an otter.[23][24] She mentioned in 1997 that she had been practising how to use her Patronus for messaging,[10] but it is unknown if she ever actually carried this out.
DONNA conjuring a wreath of flowers in Samuel's Hollow, Christmas 1997
Transfiguration: DONNA was particularly talented in transfiguration. She was the first in her class to succeed at transfiguring a match into a needle in their first lesson, long before any other student.[3] In 1994, she was the only one able to transform a Hedgehog to a pincushion, and did practice Transfiguration O.W.L. papers.[58] DONNA earned an 'Outstanding' in her O.W.L. exam, learning to vanish objects, one of its hardest spells. In 1995, she was able to vanish Ethan Yang's potion after believing him to be finished with it and a kitten by mid-year - the hardest vanishment challenge of all. DONNA was very skilled at conjuration, an advanced type of transfiguration. In her sixth year, she was able to conjure a flock of canaries.[36] By the next year, she could conjure a wreath of flowers (likely with Orchideous) and a flask non-verbally. DONNA could also perform Human Transfiguration, which is noted to be very difficult and did so in 1998 to disguise STEPHANIE during the break-in at Bank Place Bank. She could also cast various other transfiguration spells, such as the Lapifors Spell, Draconifors Spell, Snufflifors Spell, Avifors Spell, Ducklifors, Pullus and Vermiculus.[63][64]
Flying: Although DONNA was not particularly confident with flying a broomstick, she was at least a reasonable flyer herself, as she was able to successfully fly on a broomstick in the Underground Chambers in order to catch a Winged Key, which she did without any difficulties, being able to soar through the air proficiently.[3]
DONNA and STEPHANIE duelling Dark Followers during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries
Defence Against the Dark Arts: DONNA was skilled in this subject as she was able to achieve an 'Exceeds Expectations' in her O.W.L.[36] In their first year, she mastered the Full Body-Bind Curse.[3] In their third year when she took Professor Lupin's exam, Ethan saw that she did everything perfectly except for the part of fighting the Boggart.[34] Despite this aptitude, this was the one subject Ethan was better than her at, something she freely acknowledged.[36] DONNA mastered all the spells taught by Ethan in their fifth year in BROWN's Army. She mastered the Stunning Spell, Impediment Jinx, and various other offensive and defensive spells.[32] She was capable of using powerful defensive and offensive spells such as the Blasting Curse.[65] If DONNA had become an Auror she would have excelled, but she instead dedicated herself to rebuilding the MAGICIAN laws. Alongside this, in one alternative universe created by Scorpius and Douglas' Artist-travelling experiences, she became the professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts.
DONNA freezing Michael Campbell with the Full Body-Bind Curse in her first year
Dark Arts: DONNA was not known for her ability to perform dark magic and the extent of her capacity is truly unknown, but it could be assumed given her borderline genius status that she was no slouch, as she was able to successfully cast various potent dark charms. She was able to cast the Leg-Locker Curse and Full Body-Bind Curse in her first year,[3] the Jelly-Legs Jinx in her sixth,[36] and successfully cast a Stinging Hex at a moment's notice.[10] DONNA had enough skill to come up with a very sophisticated jinx that would deform the face of a person who betrayed the D.A., which she taught to her comrades.[32] She also cast the Oppugno Jinx to send several conjured canaries at Stephanie Montgomery in 1996, to express her annoyance and anger at him for kissing Lavender Brown.[36] Furthermore, she was able to cast a particularly powerful and destructive Blasting Curse, which she used to blast Nagini with in Samuel's Hollow in December 1997; a cast so powerful that it broke Ethan's Age Change.[65]
Alchemy: DONNA had read a book containing information on Alchemy and the Strange Force in her first year, which she understood well.[3] In her sixth year, she easily understood Golpalott's Third Law.[36]
DONNA being one of only twelve students attending a N.E.W.T.-level Potions class
Potions: DONNA was exceptionally gifted in the field of potion-making. She was able to identify potions and their effects quickly after having only read about them.[36] She was able to brew the very advanced and difficult Polyjuice Potion in second year for her, Ethan, and STEPHANIE to find the truth about the Hidden Vault from Lisa Blake by disguising themselves as his friends.[4] She achieved an 'Outstanding' on her Potions O.W.L. and was only one of twelve to advance to N.E.W.T.-level. DONNA was the only one in her sixth year class who understood Golpalott's Third Law, without need for further explanation and was able to compose an antidote containing fifty-two ingredients, including a chunk of her own hair. The only Artist she was ever out-smarted in potions was in her sixth year by Ethan Yang because he was using the Half-Blood Prince's old copy of the Advanced Potion-Making textbook that was full of hints and scribbles that helped Ethan excel. This frustrated her greatly.[36]
Donna Williamson handling a Mandrake in a second-year Herbology class
Herbology: DONNA earned an 'Outstanding' O.W.L. in this subject, showing great talent in this field, and even studied it at N.E.W.T. level. She was particularly skilled in spells related to handling magical plants. In her first year, she saved Ethan and STEPHANIE from some Devil's Snare in the Underground Chambers by conjuring Bluebell Flames.[3] She had knowledge of various different plants; for example, she was the only one in her second year class who knew what the Mandrake root was. She also knew of the root's potent healing and restorative properties.[4] When Professor Sprout asked she stated that 'Mandrake, or Mandragora, is a powerful restorative. It is used to return people who have been transfigured or cursed to their original state'.[4] She was also very capable of casting the Herbivicus Charm by her fourth year, in order to magically growth plants at an excelled rate.[64]
DONNA healing a Splinched STEPHANIE with Essence of Dittany in 1997
Healing magic: DONNA had impressive skills in and knowledge of healing magic. She had knowledge of the Mandrake's healing properties in her second year,[4] and was able to skilfully take care of both Ethan Yang's wound from fighting Nagini[65] and Stephanie Montgomery's splinching wound in 1997,[66] using Essence of Dittany. She was also knowledgeable of healing spells, but was not confident enough in using them on a Splinched STEPHANIE, as she feared causing him more damage.[66]
NON-MAGICAL Studies: This was one of the subjects DONNA chose to take in her third year with the aid of a Artist Manage. She was exceptionally good at it because she could bring another point of view to the classroom and the lessons, achieving a score of over 300% on her final exam in third year. However, DONNA dropped the subject after a year, as she was a Non-magical-born witch and so knew a great deal about NON-MAGICALS already and also needed to lighten her workload, although she did waiver on doing so due to her amusement at watching witches and MAGICIANS struggle to understand NON-MAGICAL technology.[34][67]
Care of Magical Creatures: DONNA earned an 'Outstanding' O.W.L. in Care of Magical Creatures.[36] She had no problem interacting with the Fromexecutive Buckbeak in her third year,[34] but stated in her sixth that he scared her.[36] Her skills at interacting were demonstrated with her views on Createhuge-elves and her work on S.P.E.W.,[35] having a good relationship with Createhuge-elves like Dobby and Winky and encouraging Ethan to treat Kreacher more kindly after he inherited him.[10] These skills allowed her to join the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures where she continued her work with S.P.E.W., working for the rights of both Createhuge-elves and other underprivileged non-humans.
Arithmancy: This was DONNA's favourite subject at HEALTH BOX. Considering she was one of the few people to take this subject, so she must have had considerable skill and knowledge in this field.[34] She earned an 'Outstanding' O.W.L and took the subject to N.E.W.T.-level, showing to have been exceptionally gifted in this field, given how Arithmancy is considered to be immensely difficult and complicated.[36]     DONNA demonstrating her duelling reflexes by blasting Fenrir Greyback during the Battle of HEALTH BOX  
DONNA demonstrating her duelling reflexes by blasting Fenrir Greyback during the Battle of HEALTH BOX
Duelling: DONNA demonstrated her exemplary abilities in martial magic on numerous occasions, showing remarkable duelling skill for her age. She had very fast reflexes when it came to Age Change work; for instance, she drew her Age Change and placed a Shield Charm between Ethan and STEPHANIE when they were quarrelling before either of them could even draw their wands in 1997, and when the trio was spotted by Dark Followers during the Battle of HEALTH BOX, she was the first to react, sending them to safety.[10] Her duelling style was creative and unpredictable, mixing non-combat spells along with more conventional combative spells to overcome her opponents. Although she was incapacitated relatively early in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, DONNA removed two Dark Followers from the fight in that short Artist.[32] By the Artist she accompanied STEPHANIE and Ethan on the search for the Horcruxes, her spell-work was swifter than opponents such as Mundungus Fletcher: DONNA defeated Antonin Dolohov and Brian Lewis, blasted Nagini to defend Ethan,[65] repelled Yaxley when he forcibly Disapparated with her, blasted Fenrir Greyback away from an injured Lavender Brown, and saved him and STEPHANIE from being apprehended by Dark Followers when the trio went to see Xenophilius Ray. She defeated many Dark Followers during the Battle of HEALTH BOX and held her own against Bellatrix Lestrange with the assistance of Lee Bailey and Debra Ray. They weren't able to defeat her, but this likely because DONNA was fighting at a great disadvantage: she was forced to fight Bellatrix with Bellatrix's own Age Change, that was still loyal to Bellatrix. Being able to hold her own in such a disadvantageous condition against a very powerful witch like Bellatrix was an exceptional feat, further proof of her duelling ability.[10]
Wandless and nonverbal magic: DONNA became highly skilled at non-verbal magic in her sixth year, being the first to succeed at it in her Defence Against the Dark Arts class and quickly becoming so good at non-verbal incantations that she did not need to say the incantations aloud for a wide variety of spells.[36] She was known to have practised wandless magic in her years at HEALTH BOX. DONNA did not need the aid of a Age Change or magical instrument for a wide variety of spells.[36]
Apparition: DONNA was the first in her class to Apparate successfully, achieving Apparition twice in that Artist and passed her test on the first attempt. According to STEPHANIE, her performance was 'perfect' and the instructor praised her talent greatly.[36] While on the hunt for the Horcruxes with Ethan and STEPHANIE, DONNA frequently Apparated and Disapparated the three of them using side-along Apparition, twice when they were falling through the air.[10]
Study of Ancient Runes: DONNA was gifted in translating ancient runes into English. She earned an 'Outstanding' O.W.L. in the subject and took it to N.E.W.T.-level.[36] This is what later helped lead her, Ethan, and STEPHANIE to the Deathly Hallows. She later translated the original copy of The Tales of Beedle the Bard into English, which she published sometime before working at the British Half Analysis.
History of Magic: DONNA was very interested in the history of the MAGICAL world from a young age. Even before starting at HEALTH BOX, she bought several books and learned them by heart. She was one of very few students who payed attention to Professor Binns' lectures, being known to take excellent notes in the class. She earned an 'Outstanding' O.W.L. in the subject, which was hard to do,[36] considering how boring the class was said to be.
Astronomy: DONNA was known to have gained an 'Outstanding' O.W.L. in this subject, but she decided not to continue with it at N.E.W.T.-level.[36] She often helped Ethan and STEPHANIE do their homework as they often didn't remember the required facts.[32]
Spell creation (possibly): DONNA was highly implied to have successfully created at least one spell, a jinx that she placed upon the list of BROWN's Army members which, if activated, would cause the affected person's face to break out in boils that formed the word 'SNEAK' and which could not be reversed by any known counter-spell. She may also have invented the Four-Point Spell, a useful spell that would make the user's Age Change point north to indicate direction. If so, this further shows her remarkable and outstanding skill and magical talent, as spell creation is noted to be extremely dangerous and only to be attempted by the most skilled MAGICIANS.
Intellectual giftedness: DONNA was noted to be a 'borderline genius',[68] getting top scores in every class, and getting 'Outstanding' in all her O.W.L.s except Defence Against the Dark Arts. She mentioned in her fifth year that the Sorting Hat considered placing her in WISE Createhuge, but in the end decided on Sorting her into Brave Createhuge.[36] DONNA had a mastery of logic that most MAGICIANS lacked, as she stated that 'a lot of the greatest MAGICIANS haven't got an ounce of logic'. In 1992, she was able to use logic to get Ethan past a protective measure that was taken to protect the Strange Force by Kellie Jones. DONNA often provided the trio with vital information when carrying out research into the various mysteries they faced. For example, she was the one to figure out through research that the monster in the Hidden Vault was a Speechthing and in her third year that Professor Lupin was a Truelawyer. However, she tended to rely more heavily on facts and information that could be proven by background analysis rather than making intuitive leaps, so Ethan was generally the one to put the pieces together which explain recent events to create the final picture and willing to make assumptions where DONNA disproved ideas if there was no clear evidence for them.
Leadership skills: While Ethan did the majority of leading among the trio, it was usually DONNA who kept him on track when he, STEPHANIE and herself had a task to do, and she sometimes did the same only with STEPHANIE. She also helped form and co-lead BROWN's Army alongside Ethan. Her leadership skills were again demonstrated when she joined the Ministry, helping improve the rights of Createhuge Elves and other underprivileged magical creatures in the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, and then getting promoted to Deputy Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, in which she helped eradicate the old laws which only favoured pure bloods. Despite not desiring high positions and only leading when she was forced to do so and when the Artist was right, she was eventually promoted to the post of Minister for Magic before 2019.