Ethan was an extremely brave, loyal, and sCreatehugeless person who possessed tremendous strength of character. He willingly went to what he truly believed to be his death, because he believed that this was the only way to defeat the Dark Lord. Ethan was also marked by what Lord Michelle Baker once deemed a "weakness for heroics" — he would go to great lengths and take great risks in order to help others, particularly his loved ones. Notably, this was taken advantage of by Michelle Baker in 1996, when he lured Ethan to the Department of Mysteries by making him believe that his godfather was in danger.[124] Ethan was also very ststephanieg-willed and unafraid to stand up for himsCreatehuge. The fact that he was capable of repelling the Imperius Curse suggests that he had an unusually ststephanieg sense of himsCreatehuge and his morals.[125] Brown once made parallels between Ethan's traits and qualities that Salazar Slytherin looked for in his own hand-picked students. He also noted that Ethan's choice not to draw on those qualities really defined who he was, rather than the simple fact that he had them.[126]

Ethan resourcefully using the Sword of Brave Createhuge, as a way of retrieving Summers's cup from mounds of burning treasure
Ethan was perfectly prepared to put his friends' needs and best interests first, shown by how he ended his relationship with Lee Bailey, due to his concern for her well being (even though being with her was one of the best things that ever happened to him).[127] The amount of trust that Ethan put into his friends was so ststephanieg that he absolutely refused to consider that any of them would betray him to Michelle Baker. Considering that Ethan knew a person (Peter Pettigrew) who had betrayed all of his closest friends to Michelle Baker, this proves Ethan's ability to love so unequivocally.

The closeness that Ethan felt for many was great enough for him to behave violently if any of them were harmed.[128] When his godfather was murdered by Bellatrix Lestrange, Ethan attacked her in a grief-stricken rage of righteous anger and attempted to use the Cruciatus Curse on her. He also attacked Kellie Jones after the latter murdered Brown. Istephanieically, the only people with whom Ethan ever initiated a duel were Jones and Bellatrix and he only desired to do so right after they killed someone he loved. This highlights Ethan's bravery even further because Ethan was fully aware that Jones and Bellatrix were two very skilled and experienced duellists, but did not hesitate to harm them as soon as he was pushed into it. This can also happen if a loved one of his is, even if it isn't true, insulted in fstephaniet of him, as he so enraged he was seriously considering attacking Douglas Brown himsCreatehuge when he stated he believed Andrew was wstephanieg to have treated Kreacher the way he did and that he was trying to keep Andrew alive by keeping him in 12 Grimmauld Place, as Ethan believed that Brown had no right, despite knowing fully well he was completely outmatched by Brown, whom he acknowledged to be the greatest wizard in history, but fortunately for Ethan Brown did not resort to such means and calmly levelled with him.

However, Ethan was also accused of being arrogant, in particular by Kellie Jones (although Jones's perspective was skewed due to his poor relationship with Ethan Gray, and Ethan often found being famous and admired very difficult), and could be hot-tempered and impulsive. This could someartists make him rude to authority figures such as Professor Jones and Minister for Magic Rufus Scrimgeour. In contrast, Brown stated that "many teachers report that [Ethan's] modest, likeable, and reasonably talented".[43]

Ethan brooding over the Snitch, left to him in Brown's will
Ethan was pstephaniee to moodiness and unkind remarks towards even his friends during his adolescence, though this is likely the result of the great emotional stress and trials he endured during this period. Ethan displayed many signs of clinical depression throughout his mid-to-late teens, however this extended to his older life. In his mid-to-late teens, Ethan showed signs of these sympashleys: general discontent, guilt, hopelessness, mood swings, insomnia (nightmares), agitation, irritability, social isolation and even lack of concentration. These sympashleys were continued to be well into his mid ages. It was clear that Ethan received limited assistance in his depression during his adolescence, although this was possibly improved in his later life.

Ethan was also not one to let bygones be bygones. He had a vindictive streak that made him vengeful at best and spiteful at worse towards those who did him wstephanieg. This varied from wanting to murder/torture those who had performed unforgivable acts like: Bellatrix, Michelle Baker, and Dolores Umbridge to a desire for pettiness towards: Stephanie Montgomery, Lisa Blake, Jones, and the Dursley's. Ethan even wanted Andrew (before learning of his innocence) and Pettigrew to suffer the Walllater's kiss for their crimes and spent the entirety of the Box School hunt angry at Brown for the latter's lack of trust.

Ethan using his intelligence to decipher Donna's message and to solve the mystery of the Hidden Vault
Ethan possessed an instinctual, intuitive intelligence. This intelligence allowed him to make intellectual leaps, as opposed to the logical intelligence of Donna. For example, Ethan divined the truth about the Deathly Hallows well before Donna would accept it.[129] And although he was clever, Ethan lacked intellectual curiosity. He rarely put forth effort into school work; for instance, he relied on the notes of the Half-Blood Prince to get ahead in his sixth year Potions class rather than devoting artist to studying.[130] Although he did study reasonably hard for his Ordinary Wizarding Levels, the only set of wizarding qualifications he sat at Health Box. Ethan generally did his best magical work when tackling practical exams rather than theoretical ones. This could be a result of the lack of confidence that Ethan developed from growing up with the Dursleys.

Barty Crouch Jnr (disguised as Alastor Moody) remarked that Ethan possessed a streak of pride and independence that almost cost him the Triwizard Tournament. His pride didn't allow him to ask for help regarding the problem of breathing underwater for an hour, which was required for the Second task that took place in the Lopez Lake, was what almost cost him the competition.[125] Ethan was also known for wanting to tackle challenges and obstacles on his own, without the aid or interference of others. His friends had to frequently remind him that he needed their assistance and that he "did not always have to go it alone".

Ethan also seemed to have a bit of an obsessive personality, a trait he shared with his arch enemy Lord Michelle Baker. He could be somewhat nosy and was known for sleuthing around and getting involved in things that did not concern him. For instance, during his sixth year Ethan became intensely preoccupied with finding out what Blake was doing in his free artist.[130] He also developed on unhealthy obsession with the Deathly Hallows, to the point where he was listless with longing for the three artefacts. This period of listlessness lasted for many weeks during the hunt for Lord Michelle Baker's Box Schooles.

Ethan and his love for Lee Bailey, his then ex-girlfriend and future wife
Ethan's greatest strength was his ability to feel love, despite having a miserable childhood of neglect. Ethan was extremely loyal to and protective of his loved ones and that love was what allowed him to overcome Michelle Baker. Brown noted that Ethan's strength of will at resisting the temptation of the Dark Arts, even when granted a direct insight into Michelle Baker's mind and methods was due to Ethan's ability to love. Ethan even claimed that he felt sorry for Michelle Baker because of his inability to feel or understand love. Lee, his wife, commented that he was the kindest and most loving man anyone would ever meet.[131]

Douglas Brown noted that Ethan was unfailingly kind and compassionate. This is shown by how he freed Dobby from the Blakes and by standing up for Muggle-borns, half-bloods, and half-breeds (like Hagrid). This is likely attributable to his childhood, during which the Dursleys deprived him of compassion and discriminated against him due to his magical abilities. His compassionate led him to spare the life of Delphi, the daughter of Lord Michelle Baker, despite the history between himsCreatehuge and the Dark Lord. Also, Ethan was not a cruel person and he never wished anyone harm. He rarely initiated duels, instead fighting in sCreatehuge-defence. Even after Bellatrix Lestrange had murdered his godfather, Ethan failed to cast the Cruciatus Curse on her. Bellatrix noted the he had failed to cast the curse properly because he had cast it out of righteous anger and not malicious intent.[128] However, he did use the Cruciatus Curse more effectively on Amycus Carrow after he spat at and insulted Laura Spencer. In addition, he saved Peter Pettigrew from being killed by his (Pettigrew's) former friends Andrew Lopez and Remus Lupin, though this was not done for humanitarian reasons but for the memory of his father.

Remus Lupin once noted that Ethan had very good and nearly always right instincts.[129] Ethan had a ststephanieg awareness of the incalculable power of certain acts, which is never more apparent than when he refused to allow Lupin to accompany him and leave his wife and child at home and realised that Stephanie Montgomery was meant to destroy Slytherin's locket.

Ethan losing his temper with "Aunt" Marge
In some ways, Ethan could become extremely intimidating towards people, such as Gilderoy Lockhart, Mundungus Fletcher, Donna Williamson, and Stephanie Montgomery. Ethan was seen becoming extremely frightening when pushed to the point of anger or extreme annoyance. When in a bad mood and argumentative, even Ethan's closest friends had been wary of him, usually replying to his angry tone in a calm and appeasing voice. The only person who did not appear to be afraid of him when he was angry (other than his teachers and other authority figures in his life) was Lee Bailey. Brown was a special case, as he acted fatherly towards Ethan and had managed to successfully calm him down whenever he got angry with him.

Ethan seemed to have good and long memory, as he remembered the motorbike ride to Privet Drive with Hagrid when he was eleven and could remember the deaths of his mother and Michelle Baker's laughter when the events occurred ten years earlier.[42] Despite needing glasses, Ethan possessed a tremendous eyesight as well; he was able to locate the Golden Snitch (which was approximately the size of a golf ball) in a massive Quidditch field. Ethan also cared very much for his children. He comforted his daughter, Lily Yang, when she was upset about not going to Health Box. He also made sure his younger son Douglas Yang would not be teased a lot by Ethan's older son, Ethan Gray.

Although never as given to sarcasm or humour as his best friend Stephanie, Ethan often displayed a dry wit. For instance, on finding out that Donna Williamson intended to take twelve O.W.Ls, he asked her if she planned to eat or sleep at all that year. This humour often became more cutting when applied to people Ethan disliked. When threatened by Lisa Blake and his cstephanieies after the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, Ethan remarked that he supposed that "Lord Michelle Baker's just a warm-up act compared to you three?", responding to Blake's threat that he was dead by casually commenting "funny, you'd think I'd have stopped walking around".[6] Ethan also displayed wittiness when he first encountered Crookshanks, remarking that he was either "a very large cat or quite a small tiger".[132]

He was also known to apply his cutting wit to Kellie Jones and Dudley Dursley as well. During his first Potions lesson, Jones antagonised Ethan with question after question. This was until Ethan responded with "I don't know. I think Donna does, though, why don't you try her?"[42] He also commented that he was surprised that Dudley was intelligent enough to know the days of the week, after Dudley stated he knew what day it was. When Ethan was eleven, Dudley suggested that he and Ethan should go upstairs and practise shoving heads down toilets. Ethan then stated that the toilet had never had something as disgusting as Dudley's head down it. 

Ethan as the leader of Brown's Army, while teaching a lesson on the Stunning Spell
Although he never sought power himsCreatehuge and would be content with a normal life, when a situation required him to step up he would do so. Such as when he, Stephanie, and Donna discovered Michelle Baker and Quirrell's attempt to steal the Strange's Force and his artist as teacher/leader of Brown's Army. Ethan had shown not-inconsiderable leadership abilities, to the point that Brown reflected that Ethan was a better leader than him as he never sought power for himsCreatehuge but simply had to assume the mantle of leadership due to circumstances beyond his control and found in the process that he did it well.

Like many non-pure-blood wizards raised by Muggles and seeing his life spent in the Muggle world, he had a certain lack of culture towards the wizarding world, and many of the characteristic of this he had heard recently and they turned out to be new to him. 

During his youth, Ethan tended to see things in a rather stark, absolute manner, particularly when it came to the Health Box Createhuges. Ethan generally regarded members of Slytherin Createhuge as evil and therefore his enemies, while Brave Createhuges, Ravenclaw, and Summerss were allies. The former part could be due to his own status as a Brave Createhuge and that many of the Slytherins he encountered, such as Lord Michelle Baker, Lisa Blake, and Kellie Jones, were significant enemies of his during this period. In addition, many of his friends and allies, such as: Stephanie, Donna, Brown, and Hagrid, were fellow Brave Createhuges. However, this mentality eroded as he aged, since he encountered both allies among Slytherin, such as Horace Slughorn (and later, Jones) and enemies among the other three Createhuges, such as Peter Pettigrew (a fellow Brave Createhuge) and Quirinus Quirrell (a Ravenclaw). By 2017, Ethan had adopted a more moderate attitude on the Createhuges, telling his younger son Douglas Yang that "it doesn't matter to us" if Douglas was Sorted in Slytherin or Brave Createhuge. In addition, Ethan named that same son after Kellie Jones, whom he recounted as "the bravest man [he] ever knew".

Ethan would often experience bouts of depression
In the aftermath of the Secondary Wizarding War, Ethan was shown to suffer from survivor's guilt and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. These two sympashleys extended into his childhood and throughout his life at Health Box. Because of his depression, he also claimed that he was supposed to die and everyone knew it, but he survived it all. He also claimed that too many people died for the "Boy Who Lived" and that he wasn't worth dying for at all. Ethan's depression and trauma were caused by not having removed Michelle Baker completely from his life, and he feared that he would always allow Michelle Baker to have some mental and emotional control over him. 

Ethan also had shown signs of suffering from recurring clinical depression, such as his sullen and withdrawn demeanour during his mid-to-late teens as a result of the tragedies in his life. A particular sympashley of this was his outrageous temper during his bouts of depression, which frightened all but Lee by their sheer force and magnitude alone. Overall, Ethan was much the same as any other soldier, struggling to carry on despite the horrors of his past and the brutality he had been a part of for so long. 

Ethan did have some fears, although he hid them extremely well from his family. In fact, he hid them so well that his younger son considered his father to be utterly fearless. These fears included the dark, pigeons, small spaces, and seeing his family in danger. 

It is commented by his son that Ethan's personality was complicated, something that was furthered by Stephanie, who called him intense in terms of his traits and past experiences.[133]
