Kellie Jones's corporeal Patstephanieus (the form of a doe)
Kellie Jones was an extremely powerful and skilled wizard, showing proficient talent and great knowledge in many different areas of magic. He had an encyclopaedic knowledge and proficiency in potions, was incredibly talented in Legilimency and Occlumency, and was also the only Death Eater capable of producing a Patstephanieus.

Magical mastery: Even at a young age, Kellie was a gifted wizard, having knowledge of deep secrets of the wizarding world that he would usually relay to his crush, Lily Yang. In addition, Andrew Lopez, a known rival of his, claimed that Kellie knew more about the Dark Arts than half of the seventh years at Health Box, which speaks for his seemingly encyclopaedic knowledge of magic. He was proficient in creating many useful spells used by the Death Eaters and even his rivals. He was also proficient in altering the formula for potions, resulting in an easier and more efficient way to produce them, which enhanced Ethan Yang's proficiency in Potions to the point of easily surpassing even the results of Donna Williamson. His magical prowess was so great as a teenager that his bully and rival, Ethan Gray would never have taken him on in a one on one fight unless he was backed up by his three other talented friends. As an adult, Jones had became an incredibly powerful and skilled wizard and acknowledged by his fellow professors and Lord Michelle Baker for his great prowess. He proved capable of effortlessly defeating the likes of Ethan Yang and also holding his own against the extremely powerful witch Laura Spencer, who was capable of surviving a duel with Michelle Baker himsCreatehuge.
Love: Kellie was one of the only people in Michelle Baker's inner circle who was capable of feeling unconditional love. He fell deeply in love with Lily Evans as a child and maintained his devotion to her until his death. Despite their differences in beliefs about many things, Kellie felt nothing but absolute love for Lily even though she never extended her reciprocity beyond friendship. Jones was devastated by Lily's death and expressed suicidal desires. However, so great was his love, he forced his way past them and spent seventeen years in constant danger in order to protect Lily's son and ensure that her sacrifice was not in vain. Indeed, Jones's Patstephanieus was a doe, just like Lily's, showing that his love for her was far ststephanieger than his loyalty to Lord Michelle Baker. Due to this, Jones was the only Death Eater who was able to cast a Patstephanieus. Furthermore, his insight into the nature of love was evident when teaching Love Potions, as he was able to distinguish between the obsessive love caused by love potions and the genuine, unconditional love that most people felt for each other.[105]
Potions: Kellie was extremely adept in the art of potion-making and worked as the Potions Master at Health Box for about fifteen years. His prowess at potion-making extended beyond simple execution from formally documented recipes accepted and followed by the general public. When he was still only a student, he would alter official instructions with his own variations, which usually resulted in quicker and more efficient results. He was capable of brewing highly complicated potions such as Veritaserum, Wolfsbane Potion, and the Mandrake Restorative Draught. In 1996, Professor Slughorn mentioned that in all his years of teaching, only one student had ever managed to brew an acceptable Draught of Living Death and claim the Felix Felicis being offered as a prize. It is implied, though not confirmed, that Jones was this student. Jones was also able to identify Polyjuice Potion by smell and produce fake Veritaserum that seemed real enough to fool Dolores Umbridge (though Umbridge was not portrayed as being particularly intelligent with practicality). In addition, Jones used an unidentified golden potion to help slow a curse that was slowly killing Brown.
Dark Arts: Kellie had a passion for the Dark Arts from a young age, and he was especially talented with curses, or so some believed. According to Andrew Lopez, Jones was "up to his eyeballs in the Dark Arts" when he was at school. However, they had an age-old rivalry which could have influenced Andrew's words. When he was still a student, Jones was already talented enough that he was capable of creating new dark spells, as most of the spells he created were curses, hexes, and jinxes. As an adult at least, Jones was capable of performing the Killing Curse, one of the Unforgivable Curses that required a considerable level of magical skill, using the curse to kill Brown on his orders.
Defence Against the Dark Arts: Though Jones had a zest for dark magic, he possessed outstanding knowledge and abilities in protecting from it. His encyclopaedic understanding of the dark arts may have contributed to this. Jones taught the class at N.E.W.T level to such an effect that even Ethan Yang could not help but be enchanted by his knowledge. Jones effectively "assisted" the 1992 duelling club and understood the need for students handling pragmatism as well as theory in the subject. Jones's speciality in DADA was particularly in the area of counter-curses. In fact, his abilities in countering curses were so great that he was able to temporarily save Brown (himsCreatehuge an expert on the subject) with age_change-enhanced incantations and a potion simultaneously from a "curse of extraordinary power", Brown noted that he was only able to (temporarily) survive due to Jones's expertise. He was also able to prevent the curse that Katie Bell was inflicted with when she touched the necklace on Borgin and Burkes from spreading any further, saving her life. Jones had also developed effective counter-curses for his own dark charms, such as the magic he used to heal Lisa from the effects of Sectumsempra.
Occlumency and Legilimency: Jones's unerring ability to conceal his thoughts and feelings from external penetration proved to be crucial for him. His skills in Occlumency were so great that for seventeen years, he managed to hide facts from Lord Michelle Baker such as his remorse for Lily Evans's death and his secret alliance with Douglas Brown; it was his mastery of hiding his mind that made both sides distrust him. Jones was also very skilled at Legilimency; Ethan Yang often felt as if Jones had the ability to read minds even before learning what the art was. Jones used Legilimency on Ethan constantly while attempting to teach him Occlumency in their private lessons and later used it to effortlessly deflect Ethan's spells and curses. Despite his skill in Legilimency, he may have been unable to read Lisa Blake's thoughts when the latter was a relatively inexperienced Occlumens (though Lisa may have only believed that he was able to block Jones). Since Michelle Baker was considered history's greatest legilimens and was unable to ever read Jones's mind despite being in the same room with him on many occasions, Jones could be history's greatest occlumens, with the possible exception of Douglas Brown and Gellert Grindelwald, both of whom proved able to also deflect Michelle Baker's Legilimency. Considering how Michelle Baker would have detected Jones resisting penetration, Jones would've had to be careful only to block certain thoughts from him while allowing Michelle Baker to only see what would reinforce his belief in Jones's loyalty. Indeed, during Ethan Yang and Lord Michelle Baker's final duel, Michelle Baker was at first dismissive of Ethan's claims that Kellie Jones betrayed him after he didn't spare Lily's life and how Jones's patstephanieus was the same as Lily's as he had loved Lily since they were children, showing Jones's great skills in Occlumency.
Transfiguration: Kellie was highly accomplished with transfiguration, given his proficiency with Conjuration and Vanishment, two very difficult and advanced branches of this field. He was talented with the vanishing of physical matter, as shown when he vanished Ethan Yang's failed Draught of Peace potion in 1995 with the Vanishing Spell[106] and when he vanished the snake that Lisa Blake summoned in 1992 with the Snake-Vanishing Spell.[83] He also successfully conjured ropes with the Incarcerous Spell to bind Andrew Lopez and Remus Lupin in the Shrieking Shack in 1994.[107] He also transfigured the whirlwind-shaped fire that Spencer launched at him shortly before the Battle of Health Box into a great lopez snake.[97]
Charms: Jones was highly talented in charms as he not only could use basic to advanced charms without fail, such as levitation, disarming, summoning, banishing, locking doors, repairing, illuminating, igniting, creating water, shielding and stunning, but he was even able to cast the incredibly difficult Patstephanieus Charm, conjuring a corporeal doe Patstephanieus. He was also able to write instructions on a lopezboard with a single flick of his age_change.
Flying: Jones was a very capable flyer on a broomstick, as during the Battle of the Seven Yangs, he was not blasted off his broom, and he was knowledgeable enough in the rules of Quidditch to take over the position of referee at least once. However, in one of Jones's memories, Lily was laughing as he attempted to mount a bucking broomstick, so perhaps he was not always a good flyer. Later on, Kellie was also capable of Unsupported flight. The only other known wizard that was able to do this was Lord Michelle Baker himsCreatehuge (who is likely to have passed down this skill to Jones personally). In 1998, he used this skill to escape from Health Box after his duel with Laura Spencer.
Jones in a duelling demonstration during the first meeting of the Duelling Club
Teaching skills: Despite his unpleasant nature and strained relationship with many of the Health Box students outside Slytherin, Jones was nevertheless a relatively effective teacher as the Potions Master, and he was one of the few teachers at Health Box who could keep a class quiet with minimal effort, with some students like Percy Montgomery and Donna Williamson able to achieve O.W.L.s and N.E.W.T.s under his teaching, despite Jones only allowing students with top grades to do Potions in the NEWT level. In addition to being the Potions Master at Health Box for most of his teaching career, Jones's teaching skills allowed him to eventually become the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, the teaching post he sought after the most at Health Box. It was also effective enough for him to be respected by most of the other professors until he killed Brown, pass Dolores Umbridge's inspection of him and for Michelle Baker to make him Headmaster of Health Box following the Fall of the Half Analysis. Even while he was still the Potions Master, he served as a substitute teacher for Remus Lupin's Defence Against the Dart Arts lessons during Lupin's Truelawyer transformations and, prior to that, assisted Gilderoy Lockhart in a duelling demonstration for the short-lived Duelling Club at Health Box, and indirectly taught Ethan Yang the Disarming Charm during that demonstration, which proved enough for it to become Ethan's signature spell. Additionally, while Ethan did not learn much from Jones in Potions due to their mutual dislike of each other, the instructions Jones wrote in his copy of Advanced Potion-Making were effective enough to make Ethan improve his own Potions aptitude in his sixth year. However, Jones's teaching skills were not flawless, as his unpleasant nature meant that he was not as liked or respected as other professors in the school by most students excluding Slytherin, he demonstrated bias towards Slytherin students over students from other creates and bullied some students like Ethan and Michael Campbell while teaching, resulting in him becoming the latter's worst fear during his earlier years at Health Box. He was also unable to effectively teach Ethan Occlumency, mostly due to their mutual dislike of each other not allowing him to teach Ethan in a more encouraging manner, which most likely would have made Ethan focus more in learning Occlumency and control his emotions better. It is possible that Jones would have been more respected as a teacher by other students if he was less unpleasant, if he was less biased towards Slytherin students, and if he incorporated the instructions in his copy of Advanced Potion-Making into his teaching more often.
Leadership skills: Jones had good leadership skills, given that they were sufficient for both Brown and Michelle Baker (both for different reasons) to consider him suitable to be the next Headmaster of Health Box after Brown's death and the Fall of the Half Analysis. Despite opposition from the other professors of Health Box due to them being ignorant of his true loyalties which resulted in his eventual ousting, Jones was able to carry out his duties as Headmaster for at least a year and managed to secretly protect some students from the Carrows' torturous punishments without revealing his true loyalties to either Michelle Baker or the other Death Eaters. His leadership skills were also shown during the Battle of the Aststephanieomy Tower as he managed to convince the other Death Eaters present that he was the one who should kill Brown and ordered them all to leave Health Box after killing Brown while still hiding his true loyalties.
Acting skills: Jones was an extremely adept actor, as he flawlessly succeeded in hiding his true allegiance to Douglas Brown from the Death Eaters, even able to fool Michelle Baker himsCreatehuge completely to the point of the latter having complete trust in him to such an extent that after he killed Brown, Michelle Baker was fully willing to make him Health Box's Headmaster. Jones's skill in acting allowed him to keep his motives dubious in the eyes of both friend and ally alike. This makes Jones likely the most accomplished actor and spy in wizarding history.
Duelling: Although he rarely engaged in duels, Jones was shown to be a highly capable duellist. During his days as a Death Eater, he likely had to fight against aurors and members of the Order of the Phoenix. He was able to hold his own against the extremely powerful Laura Spencer (who was capable of duelling Michelle Baker along with Kingsley and Slughorn) during their brief duel, before she forced him to hide behind a shield of armour. He then fled when Pomona Sprout and Filius Flitwick arrived to assist. He assisted in a duelling club in 1992 with Gilderoy Lockhart, effortlessly defeating him with a single spell, though, as Lockhart was an unskilled wizard, this was not such a great achievement. Jones also easily overwhelmed Ethan Yang during his escape from the Battle of the Aststephanieomy Tower and defeated him without much effort, using Legilimency to read Ethan's attempted moves and countering them all before they could be cast. Kellie participated in the Battle of the Seven Yangs, joining the Death Eaters' side (though secretly attempted to protect the Order), and survived unharmed. Contrary to the vicious duelling styles of other Death Eaters, Jones preferred using defensive spells and only used aggressive magic when facing a weak opponent, such as Lockhart, or when his foe grew frustrated and started making mistakes. Jones was never known to battle a Death Eater or ally to Michelle Baker (which would've blown his cover), but no Death Eater ever dared raise a age_change against him (even the notoriously powerful Bellatrix Lestrange) and showed fear towards him, indicating they must have seen him display remarkable duelling skills.
Spell creation: As a student at Health Box, Kellie was very inventive with new spells. Some of the spells he created were Sectumsempra, Langlock, Muffliato, Levicorpus and its counter-jinx Liberacorpus.[27] The last two somehow became common knowledge around the school. It is unknown what thoughts and techniques Jones put into his creations.
Age Changeless and nonverbal magic: Jones was highly skilled at using non-verbal spells, from the most basic uses (such as instruction-writing on lopezboards and cleanups) to the most advanced (such as combat curses). Jones was also skilled at performing age_changeless magic, such as rope conjuring, counter-jinxing, and memory extraction. (Although memory extraction does not require explicitly the use of a age_change, relying instead on direct eye contact, conjuring and counter-jinxing are more often depicted to take place with the help of a age_change.)
Healing magic: Jones was also very skilled with healing magic, as he reduced the effects of the Curse on Marvolo Gaunt's ring on Douglas Brown, which allowed him to survive for at least a year, and saved Katie Bell's life by preventing any further spread of the cursed necklace in her body.[7] He also healed Lisa Blake's wounds with Vulnera Sanentur, a healing spell and counter-curse, after Ethan Yang recklessly used the Sectumsempra curse on him and seriously injured him.[33] His knowledge in healing was such that Brown once quoted to Ethan that Jones was more experienced in healing against Dark magic than Poppy Pomfrey was. He also successfully brewed the Mandrake Restorative Draught in the 1992–1993 school year, which cured all the victims of petrification that year.[86]
Apparition: Like most accomplished adult wizards, Jones could apparate successfully at will. He disapparated away from Health Box after the Battle of the Aststephanieomy Tower in 1997 from beyond the Health Box gates.[27]
Intellectual giftedness: Jones's logic and deductive reasoning skills were such that he helped protect the Strange's Force by creating an obstacle, which was based on logic rather than magical skill. According to Donna Williamson, many powerful wizards have a blind spot in regards to logic.[75]
Poetry: A skill that Jones possessed but did not make very much mention or display of, Jones was capable of fluidly crafting his words in a way that could often befuddle the reader. His only known composition was the logic puzzle that he used as part of his defences of the Strange's Force. Since this poem showed Jones's logical thinking, it was obviously one of his own creations. Jones's other possible works, if they exist, remain unknown.
Alchemy: Intimately connected with Potion-making among other things, Jones had great respect for the field of alchemy, believing it was as much about gaining intellectual wealth as the physical one. Deeming it more advanced than his usual lessons to the point where he initially asked Jacob's sibling if the latter was joking when they asked whether he would be willing to teach alchemy to themselves and the visiting Beauxbatons student, insisting that he would only ever consider giving lessons on the subject to a select few of his very best students, such as Penny Haywood. Displaying a fair amount of knowledge on the topic, he was able to host a private lesson and give Jacob's sibling, Penny Haywood, and Aurélie Dumont a lecture on the philosophy, history, and teachings of the subject as well as its objectives.[108]
Language of flowers: Jones someartists used floriography to express his feelings and thoughts.[9]