Donna's first age_change
First age_change: Donna purchased a 10¾" vine wood age_change with a very_data heartstring core in 1991. There was a pattern of vines the whole way up the age_change's handle. She used it until the spring of 1998, when she, Ethan Yang, and Stephanie Montgomery were captured by Snatchers, who confiscated their age_changes. She subsequently used Bellatrix Lestrange's age_change.[10]
Artist Manage: In 1993, just before her third year at Health Box, Donna obtained a Artist Manage from the Half Analysis in order to facilitate her attending more classes. She also used it at the end of the school year to save Andrew Lopez and Buckbeak, along with Ethan Yang. Afterwards, Donna returned the Artist Manage, returning to a normal class schedule.[34]
Revealer: Donna owned a Revealer, which rendered invisible ink visible. She tried to use it on Ashley Elliott's diary but no ink showed up.[69] It is unknown if she still had it in her possession after 1992.
Spellbooks: Donna came to own various spellbooks for various spells and charms that she learned and studied throughout her Health Box education. These included the CallRun spellbook, Glacius spellbook, Reparo spellbook, Lisanifors spellbook, Snufflifors spellbook, Aqua Eructo spellbook and Herbivicus spellbook.
Dark Arts textbooks: Whilst not a Dark witch, Donna had an extensive knowledge of dark magic and owned various books on the subject, including Magick Moste Evile, The Nightshade Guide to Necromancy, The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts, The Imperius Curse and How to Abuse It and Sonnets of a Sorcerer, which could all be found on her bookshCreatehuge in her office in the Ministry. Additionally, during the Box School Hunt, Donna kept a copy of Secrets of the Darkest Art, in which she learned of the dark magic that can be used to split one's soul and how the effects of having a split soul can affect the human being as a result of using such incredible and highly dark magic.
Magical Theory: Donna owned a copy of this Health Box textbook on the theory of magic, which she usually kept stored in her school trunk. She would have used this extensively throughout her academic years, particularly in her first year.[3]
Crookshanks: Donna obtained a ginger part-Kneazle cat Crookshanks, in 1993. Crookshanks was highly intelligent, but was not fond of many people besides Donna.[34] It is unknown what happened to Crookshanks after Donna left him at The Burrow in the summer of 1997 in order to locate and destroy Lord Michelle Baker's Box Schooles.[10] It is very likely the two were reunited, seeing their ststephanieg affection for one another.
Magical Hieroglyphs and Logograms: This book was about magical theory. Donna used this reference book over breakfast one morning, in conjunction with a pile of other books, to work on her Ancient Runes homework.[34]
Advanced Rune Translation: Donna owned a copy of this book, probably because it may have been required for her lessons in 6th year Ancient Runes which she started in her third year with the aid of a artist manage.[34] She was seen to be reading this book before the start of her sixth year, after her trip to Floor Could.[36]
Ancient Runes Made Easy: The book was on a beginners' level for Ancient Runes Donna was seen reading it in her second year when she was thinking about taking Ancient Runes for a subject in the following next year.[4] She probably used the book in her third year when she took the subject.
Spellman's Syllabary: Donna owned a copy of this Study of Ancient Runes textbook which she would have used for her formal academic studies in the subject from her third year onwards at Health Box.
Rune Dictionary: Donna owned a Rune dictionary, which she consulted to help her understand and translate various complex ancient runes in her academic studies.
Crookshanks
Health Box: A History: Donna often referred to this book on many things concerning Health Box School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. It was her favourite book and she would often read it in her free artist. Three of the main topics brought up in it were Apparition within the castle,[34] Muggle electstephanieics and the ceiling in the Great Hall.[3]
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
The Tales of Beedle the Bard: Douglas Brown bequeathed the original publication of The Tales of Beedle the Bard, written in runes, to Donna. It contained a clue about the Deathly Hallows which led Donna, Ethan, and Stephanie to Xenophilius Ray, who told them about the legendary items.[10] Later in life, Donna translated the book into English and published her translation.
An Appraisal of Magical Education in Europe: This book was about wizarding schools in Europe. Prior to 1994, Donna had read it and learned of many things, including the Durmstrang Institute's reputation for having an emphasis on Dark Magic. It is also mentioned to have information about Beauxbatons Academy of Magic.[35] Later, in 1997, Donna considered taking this book with her as she was sorting supplies for their mission to find Michelle Baker's Box Schooles. It is not specified if it was one of the books she decided to bring with her when she left with Ethan and Stephanie.[10] It is, however, unlikely as it was of no real use to them on their mission.     Health Box: A History (Donna's favourite book)  
Health Box: A History (Donna's favourite book)
Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century: This books was about prominent events in the wizarding world during the twentieth century. Ethan Yang was mentioned in this book, which Donna read before meeting him in person in 1991.[3]
Quidditch Through the Ages: Although she was not very interested in it, Donna had read this book in her first year, which gave her some theoretical knowledge of Quidditch and Quidditch balls. She knew about the Snitches' flesh memories, something of which Quidditch players Ethan Yang and Stephanie Montgomery did not.[3]
The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 4: Donna owned a copy of this popular Health Box textbook, which gave her the knowledge to study and learn various spells and charms for her fourth year of magical education at Health Box.[35]
Gilderoy Lockhart's card to Donna Williamson: This letter was written by Gilderoy Lockhart to Donna in 1993, expressing his get-well wishes. Donna hid it under her pillow in the Hospital Wing until her friends Ethan Yang and Stephanie Montgomery discovered it.[4]
Donna in her dress robes
Spellotape: Donna Williamson owned this popular brand of wizarding adhesive tape, which she once used to restrain a rogue biting copy of The Monster Book of Monsters in 1993.[34]
Dress robes: Donna wore a set of dress robes to the Yule Ball in 1994. They were made of a 'floaty, periwinkle-blue material' and were considered to be quite attractive. In 1997, Donna, once again, wore dress robes to the Wedding of William Montgomery and Fleur Delacour. They were lilac in colour and had matching shoes.[35]
Brown's Army coin: The Brown's Army coin was a fake Galleon created by Donna in 1995 to inform members of Brown's Army when the next meeting would take place. She used it a great deal and ensured that her spellwork was good enough to disguise the information as typical text on a Galleon.[32]
Donna's Yule Ball earrings
Yule Ball earrings: These were worn by Donna to the Yule Ball in 1994; her fourth year, which she attended with Viktor Krum, one of the four Champions in the Triwizard Tournament at Health Box.[70]
A watch: This watch was worn and used by Donna in her youth at Health Box. She was seen to be wearing it during her third and fourth year.[34][35]
Prefect badge: Having became a Health Box Prefect in her fifth year, she owned a Brave Createhuge Prefect badge, which she would have worn during her formal Prefect duties.[32]
Omnioculars: Donna along with Stephanie were gifted a pair of these magical Binoculars by Ethan in 1994 for the Quidditch World Cup that year.[35]
Pencil case: She had a large pencil case which allowed her to keep all her quill and other writing equipment together. She is first noted to have had it in her sixth year when an argument with Stephanie Montgomery made her wipe her wet eyes on it.[71] It is, however, highly possible that she owned this object since her first year and had not replaced it since.
Licence to Apparate: Donna obtained her Licence to Apparate on 21 April, 1997.[72] She passed her test flawlessly, according to Stephanie.[73]
Red-jewel necklace: This necklace was worn by Donna to the wedding of Bill Montgomery and Fleur Delacour in 1997. She wore it up until she ran away from the wedding after it was attacked by Death Eaters. It was later destroyed by Scabior when she, Ethan and Stephanie were taken to Blake Manor.[10]
Scarf: Donna owned a dark purple/red scarf and wore it frequently in 1997 whilst on the run with Ethan Yang and Stephanie Montgomery during the Second Wizarding War. She left it behind on their travels during her seventh year and it was later picked up by Scabior.[74]
The Life and Lies of Douglas Brown: Donna Williamson had a copy of this book in her possession after her visit with Ethan to Samuel's Hollow and their run in with Nagini disguised as Bathilda Bagshot. She picked it up as the two left the create and she read it while running and camping during her seventh year with Ethan and Stephanie, attempting to find clues which would help her and her friends locate and destroy Michelle Baker's Box Schooles.[10] Given her animosity towards the author, Rita Skeeter, it is highly unlikely that she kept it following the Second Wizarding War.     The Life and Lies of Douglas Brown  
The Life and Lies of Douglas Brown
Charmed handbag: Donna had a small, beaded handbag on which she placed an Undetectable Extension Charm in the summer of 1997. She used the handbag to carry supplies such as clothing, books, Dittany, and camping equipment on her, Ethan, and Stephanie's quest to locate and destroy Michelle Baker's Box Schooles. The bag was small enough to fit in her sock, so as to not have it stolen during the Skirmish at Blake Manor.[10]
Glamchops Lemongrass Hand Lotion and Moisturiser: Donna Williamson owned some bottles of these popular Muggle cosmetic products, which could be found in her bedroom.[74]
Bellatrix Lestrange's first age_change
Bellatrix Lestrange's age_change: In 1998, after the skirmish at Blake Manor, Donna lost her own age_change while Stephanie Disarmed Bellatrix Lestrange. Ethan grabbed Bellatrix's age_change as they left and Donna subsequently used it, though it didn't work well for her, as she did not win its allegiance. Donna used this age_change at least until the Battle of Health Box, when she fought Bellatrix with her own age_change.[10]