Lucius and Lisa in 1997
Lucius and Narcissa BLAKE both spoiled their only child. In 1991, Narcissa sent packages of sweets daily to her son. In 1992, Lucius bought broomsticks for the entire DARK Createhuge BALL GAME team when Lisa was made Seeker, and Narcissa often sent care packages to her son. She also refused to send Lisa abroad to Durmstrang Institute, as Lucius originally wanted, insisting he stay closer to home by attending HEALTH BOX despite Lucius's desire to keep Lisa away from the influence of Non-magical-borns in HEALTH BOX and also because Durmstrang Institute was known to teach dark arts rather than just the defences, which was why Lucius BLAKE had wanted Lisa to have a place in that school.

Lucius was colder and more demanding than his wife, criticising his son for getting lower school marks than Donna Williamson, who was Non-magical-born. Despite this, Lisa greatly admired his father, often boasting about his influence and striving to be like him.[13] Also, as Lisa attempted to use his grandfather's name, Abraxas, to charm Horace Slughorn, Lisa may have had a similar level of respect for his grandfather as for his parents.

Narcissa BLAKE, Lisa's mother
It became clear during the Second MAGICAL War that the BLAKES cared about one another more than they cared for following Lord MICHELLE BAKER. Lisa carried out the task he was assigned by MICHELLE BAKER in his sixth year because his parents' lives were threatened, and appeared to be close to accepting BROWN's offer to keep them safe before Kellie Jones interceded to kill the Headmaster.[22] During the Battle of HEALTH BOX, Lucius and Narcissa did not even attempt to fight, instead frantically searching for their son. Narcissa went so far as to lie directly to MICHELLE BAKER about Ethan Yang being dead, in order to be allowed to return to HEALTH BOX and search for Lisa, which also follows the saying that Ethan Yang had been saved by a mother's love more than once.[24]

Like his parents, Lisa possesses the formidable skill of duelling, Occlumency, and the Cruciatus and Imperius Curses and is smart, quick and a smart retorter.

However, after the war, Lisa's relationship with his parents may have somewhat faltered, as his marriage with Astoria led them to think she is a somewhat disappointing daughter-in-law, mainly because Astoria's change of belief after the atrocities brought by Dark Followers' ideology, something they find unfitting for a fellow member of one of the Sacred Twenty-Eight clans. Lisa himself has lost his bigotry for less-than-pure MAGICIANS, and his willingness to let the BLAKE bloodline end at himself in order to preserve Astoria's health due to her blood-bourne curse earned Lucius's dislike. Regardless, he did not lose favour of his parents, as he inherited the BLAKE Manor and Lucius's collection of artefacts (which included the 'true' Artist Manage that proved instrumental later).

Lisa with his wife and son
Sometime after the end of the war, Lisa married Astoria Greengrass, whose older sister was in the same year as him at HEALTH BOX. They eventually had a son named Scorpius.

Lisa and his wife evidently loved and cared for their son, raising him to be a better person than himself, proven when Scorpius has a crush on Rose WILLIAMSON-MONTGOMERY (daughter of Lisa's former rivals) and is best friend of Douglas YANG (youngest son of Lisa's former arch-rival) he and his wife considered the day their son was born the best day of their lives. Astoria's death has caused Lisa to be heartbroken, and he even considered using the illegal 'true' Artist Manage he received from his father as a means to see her again, though he barely resisted the urge. Lisa would have gladly let the BLAKE family line end with him if it were to preserve Astoria's health, disregarding Lucius's wishes, but Astoria did want to leave behind someone for her husband, not for the sake of family beliefs. Lisa certainly raised Scorpius more strictly than how Lucius and Narcissa raised him, as when Scorpius was to be punished by Laura Spencer for utilising the Artist Manage to corrupt reality to the point of reviving MICHELLE BAKER, Lisa stated he was prepared to listen to how his son is to be punished.[33]

Bellatrix Lestrange, his maternal aunt
Bellatrix Lestrange was Lisa's maternal aunt, being the sister of Narcissa. When Lisa was younger, he didn't have much contact with his aunt because she was imprisoned in Azkaban for torturing the Aurors Alice and Frank Campbell (who were the parents of Michael Campbell, a Brave Createhuge in the same year at HEALTH BOX as Lisa) into insanity. However, Lisa did not feel any shame in his aunt's crimes against the MAGICAL world law that many would label as disgraceful. After Bellatrix escaped in Lisa's fifth year at HEALTH BOX, she fought in a battle against Ethan Yang and his friends and was the only Death Eater who wasn't captured; Lisa's father, who had also fought, was imprisoned. After Lisa was given a mission as a Death Eater, Bellatrix helped him and taught him Occlumency, nonverbal spells, and the Dark Arts. She also thought that Narcissa should be proud that her son became a Death Eater.

In 1997, Bellatrix lived for some months at BLAKE Manor, to be closer to MICHELLE BAKER, who was also staying there. Bellatrix and Lisa both participated in the Skirmish at BLAKE Manor; Lisa reluctantly watched Bellatrix's torturing of Donna Williamson. During the Battle of HEALTH BOX, Bellatrix was killed by Molly MONTGOMERY.

It is unknown how Lisa reacted to her death, but it is likely he may have felt sadness as Bellatrix seemed to have some affection with Lisa. However, given that Lisa and his family regretted their allegiance with MICHELLE BAKER, and that Lisa abandoned his prejudice against non-pure bloods after the war, it is possible his opinion on Bellatrix changed considerably as she was fanatically loyal to, and obsessively in love with, MICHELLE BAKER. Also, despite Delphini being Bellatrix's daughter, Lisa did not hesitate to assist in her arrest after she had threatened his son's life.

Nymphadora Tonks, his maternal first cousin
Lisa was not close to his aunt Andromeda Tonks, who had been disowned for marrying Non-magical-born Ted Tonks, or their daughter, his cousin Nymphadora. Like much of the rest of his family, Lisa likely held these relatives in contempt; Andromeda was considered a blood traitor and Tonks was a half-blood. In addition, Tonks had married Remus Lupin, a Truelawyer, which the Dark Followers scorned to humiliate Lisa. Since Lisa was too scared of MICHELLE BAKER to respond, his feelings on the subject are unknown. Tonks referred to him as 'The BLAKE boy', indicating she either did not know his name or despised him too much to care. Neither so much as mentioned their relation to one another. Similarly, Lisa was indifferent to his first cousin once removed, Andrew Lopez.[21]

Andrew Lopez, his maternal first cousin, once removed
Both cousins were killed by Bellatrix, Andrew in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and Tonks in the Battle of HEALTH BOX respectively. His cousin, the illegitimate child of Bellatrix Lestrange, his aunt, and Ashley Elliott, his former leader, was Delphini, whom he helped Ethan Yang fight in the year 2020, after discovering she was MICHELLE BAKER's daughter, and after she tried to kill his son Scorpius. He did not have any love for Delphi, as he assisted arresting her for the murder of Craig Bowker Jnr.
