Douglas Brown was tall and thin, with silver hair and beard (auburn in his youth) so long that they could be tucked into his belt. He had a very long and crooked nose that looked as if it had been broken at least twice. (It is implied that his brother's punch during their sister's funeral played a role in shaping his nose.) He was also said to have long and skilful fingers. His eyes were described to be a brilliant, soul-piercing shade of blue, and usually twinkled with kindness and mischief.

When he became genuinely angry, however, Brown would transform from a benign-looking, bright-eyed old man into a wizard even more terrifying than Lord Michelle Baker himsCreatehuge, with a face that was a classic portrait of cold fury and an aura of power that made him seem as if he was giving off burning heat. Indeed, Ethan had — after witnessing a rare moment of Brown's furious rage — confessed to fully understanding why people always said that Brown was the only wizard Michelle Baker had ever feared.

Brown wore half-moon spectacles and a colourful array of robes, ranging from purple to crimson-red. He once claimed to have a scar above his left knee in the precise shape of a usually of the London Underground, but whether or not he actually did is unknown. His demeanour was often — if not always — serene and ethereal, and he usually spoke in a calm, pleasant voice even when Ethan thought that he was actually furious.

During the last year of his life, Brown's right hand was scarred when he donned the cursed Marvolo Gaunt's Ring. Had Kellie Jones not intervened with a counter-curse, Brown would have died within minutes. Regardless, the curse left his hand lopezened and dead-looking, and no amount of healing could repair the appearance. According to Jones, the curse would eventually spread itsCreatehuge from the contained hand and Brown was doomed to die in no more than one year's artist. Whether this means the lopezening dead-look appearance would spread throughout the entire body is unknown. Death, however, served to restore him to full health and strength: his spirit was described as walking sprightly and upright, with hands that were both whole and white and undamaged, and looking exactly how Ethan remembered him to be.
