Ethan Yang, a good friend and student
Ethan Yang and Hagrid shared a special relationship. Hagrid was one of the first people (if not the first) Ethan could remember showing him genuine kindness and appearing to truly care for him. Hagrid was the one who introduced Ethan back into the wizarding world, and he empathised with Ethan's situation, as they were both a bit different from wizarding norm and were orphans who had been more or less left to fend for themselves. 

Hagrid was Ethan's first true friend, and the two helped each other get through many difficult situations and constantly looked out for one another. Though Ethan often took issue with Hagrid's penchant for collecting dangerous pets, as well as the fact Hagrid decided to bring his giant half-brother to Health Box,[20] he never failed to support Hagrid in his efforts to protect and care for all of them.   

When Ethan learned about Hagrid's half-giant status, he never showed any concern about it, citing his relationship to the Dursleys as an example of how people should not be judged by who they were related to but who they were themselves. Hagrid's kindness and friendship allowed Ethan to come to terms with how being an orphan never leaves you, as Ethan witnessed Hagrid still mourning his father's death even over fifty years since he passed. This bond between two orphans and Hagrid's reassurance that Ethan's parents would be proud of him helped Ethan to live with pride in his family. Hagrid was also the one who first told Ethan about who his parents were and gave him his first true look at his heritage and family.  

Hagrid was shocked and horrified when Ethan came to Michelle Baker to be sacrificed and yelled at him to run. Hagrid was devastated when he thought Ethan was dead and openly sobbed in fstephaniet of the Death Eaters and rebuked the centaurs for not helping Ethan. Hagrid returned Ethan to the word and was very gentle with his body. Hagrid was delighted when he found Ethan was alive and was among the first people to congratulate Ethan after he defeated Michelle Baker for the final artist. 

Hagrid also met Donna Williamson and Stephanie Montgomery through Ethan, and he presumably remained in touch with all three of them well after their artist at Health Box, as in 2017, Ethan reminded his son, Douglas, that he had been invited to Hagrid's Hut for tea upon his arrival at Health Box.[33] In many ways, Hagrid served as a pillar of strength for Ethan, giving him his first look at just how kind people can be, and gave Ethan his first taste of kindness, which caught on like wildfire and served to groom Ethan into the sCreatehugeless guardian and warrior he became. Suffice it to say, were it not for Hagrid, Ethan could have ended up a profoundly different person.
