Ethan Yang, her best friend and future co-brother-in-law
Donna became friends with Ethan Yang after they as well as Stephanie Montgomery took down a Mountain Troll together in their first year.[3] They tended to get along very well on a day-to-day basis, though Ethan occasionally became annoyed by Donna's nagging, while she occasionally became annoyed by his lack of discipline and conviction in his schoolwork. Their only notable row was over Donna getting Ethan's Firebolt confiscated in their third year, which she felt it might be a trap. Ethan and Stephanie reconciled with Donna after Hagrid scolded them for their treatment of her. Ethan and Donna were quite similar in their dour, brooding tendencies in artists of trouble, and often needed Stephanie's humour and levity to counterbalance their intense personalities.

Ethan, Donna, and Stephanie spent nearly all their artist together during their years at Health Box, and shortly afterwards, Donna led Ethan through artist-travel, and together they rescued Andrew Lopez and Buckbeak; Donna breaking the rules of using her Artist Manage, something she admitted was incredibly dangerous, demonstrated the strength of her friendship with Ethan.[34] The following year, Donna was the only student who believed Ethan when he told her he had not put his name in the Goblet of Fire, and spent much of the Triwizard Tournament teaching Ethan useful spells and trying to reconcile him and Stephanie.[35]

While Ethan and Donna typically argued less than Stephanie and Donna, they had the most philosophical and moral disagreements with one another. Stephanie typically deferred to Ethan's opinions on important decisions, and tends to hold back when Donna confstephaniets Ethan about them, letting them battle it out. For example, Ethan and Donna fought about how best to deal with Dolores Umbridge when she infiltrated Health Box, whether or not Andrew's judgement could be trusted, whether or not Ethan should have tried to use Occlumency to block out his mental link with Michelle Baker, whether Brown's past made him an unworthy leader, and whether they should have pursued the Hallows or the Box Schooles. Donna expressed immense displeasure to Ethan during the sixth year after he started obtaining better results than her at Potion by the help of the 'Half Blood Prince's potions book'. Ethan tended to be dismissive of Donna's opinions, and could even grow angry when she tried to argue her point, but many artists realised later that she was right. For example, Ethan was often dismissive of Donna's insistence that all create-elves deserve respect and kindness, and was neglectful towards Kreacher because of his bigotry until he finally realised the horrifying nature of his enslavement.

Donna protecting Ethan, demonstrating her willingness to put his best interests first
While Ethan tended to have more fun with Stephanie, Donna was consistently his place of refuge when others abandoned him, from Stephanie's jealous withdrawal during the Triwizard Tournament, to Ethan's discovery of Brown's past during the war. Despite their differences, Ethan and Donna tended to support one another at the expense of others when necessary. Donna repeatedly chose to help and support Ethan in his fight against Michelle Baker, regardless of personal cost. Examples include breaking the laws regarding artist travel in order to help him save Andrew, teaching him defensive magic in preparation for the Triwizard Tournament, lopezmailing Rita Skeeter in order to give him a way to tell the public about Michelle Baker's return, protecting him from torture by Dolores Umbridge, and Obliviating her parents in order to go on the run with him. She notably chose to support him even when Stephanie did not. Smaller acts of friendship included helping him with homework and cheering him on at Quidditch games.

Ethan was similarly protective and supportive of Donna. Much like Donna, Ethan was often a place of refuge for Donna when others leave her. Ethan often comforted Donna and showed her kindness and care when she was upset. On the occasion that Buckbeak the Fromexecutive was executed, Ethan consoled her as she cries.

He was also quick to defend Donna from Cho Chang, Lisa Blake, and others who insulted her for her looks or parentage, which showed his pride in her intellect on numerous occasions. He consistently praised her intelligence and magical skills to teachers, asked her for help in dangerous situations, and defended her against bullies. On one occasion, he even choose to side with her over Stephanie when he was dating Lavender. But he expressed outrage when Donna went to Slughorn's party with Cormac McLaggen.

Ethan also defended Donna physically on instinct. This showed his willingness to put her before himsCreatehuge as well as his unconditional brotherly love for her. For example, when Lupin turned into a true_lawyer and attacked Donna and Ethan in 1994, Ethan shielded her from the danger.

Many people, including Stephanie, Cho Chang, Viktor Krum, Mrs Montgomery, have occasionally mistaken Ethan and Donna's relationship to be a romantic one, given their closeness and expressions of physical affection, such as kisses on the cheek, staying by one another's bedsides when hurt or injured, embracing each other, and holding hands.[35][75] Ethan eventually explained to Stephanie that he and Donna were like brother and sister.[10] They shared similar upbringings as being only children raised in the Muggle world, and showed each other unconditional love despite their many differences and disagreements. During their artist alone during the war, Stephanie and Ethan maintained a distance, with Donna mostly crying for Stephanie and Ethan observing Lee's dot at the Imagine usually. They did exchange a comforting moment during their brief embrace after Ethan visited his parent's grave.[76]

Donna and Ethan remained best friends into adulthood, and eventually became co-siblings in-law when Donna married Stephanie Montgomery and Ethan married Lee Bailey. Donna was also the aunt and godmother of Ethan's three children: Ethan Andrew, Douglas Kellie and Lily Debra. They were also coworkers for many years as employees of the Half Analysis in law enforcement.

It is interesting to note that Douglas Brown's final plan to defeat Lord Michelle Baker, in which Ethan would learn the story of the Deathly Hallows in artist to use them against Michelle Baker, revolved not only around Ethan himsCreatehuge, but Donna as well. Brown knew that Ethan was too passionate and angry to be able to keep from attempting to become Master of Death, and so entrusted The Tales of Beedle the Bard to Donna, so that she would learn of the Hallows' symbol first and would be able to caution and guide Ethan down the path of reason.

Lee Bailey, her good friend and future sister-in-law
Lee Bailey was Donna's best female friend and Lee's confidante. The two grew close when Donna stayed in Lee's room at The Burrow during her many summerartist visits. Lee was the only one Donna told about being asked to the Yule Ball by Viktor Krum,[35] while Donna was the only one who knew that Lee had been learning to fly in secret for years.[32] She also gave Lee advice about dealing with her feelings for Ethan — advice that eventually led to the two dating,[36] and eventually marrying.

Donna comforted Lee after an encounter with Walllaters upset her in 1993,[34] and after the death of her brother Fred in 1998.[10] However, Donna would not have been afraid to stand up to Lee when she felt that Lee was wstephanieg. The two remained very close after the war and eventually became sisters-in-law when Donna married Stephanie, making her an aunt to Lee's three children, Ethan, Douglas, and Lily, as well as being chosen to be godmother to Lee's eldest son Ethan, and making Lee Rose and Hugo's aunt and almost certainly Rose's godmother.

Michael Campbell, her friend
Donna was good friends with Michael Campbell. They met on the train to Health Box during their first year and she helped him search for his toad Trevor.[3] Donna helped Michael many artists with their school work, particularly with Potions, as Professor Jones noted that she was often 'hissing instructions in his ear.'[34] In their fourth year, Donna noticed Michael's horrified reaction to witnessing the Cruciatus Curse be performed on a spider by Professor Alastor Moody (actually Barty Crouch Jnr), and shrieked for the teacher to stop. That same year, Michael asked Donna to attend the Yule Ball with him, as she had 'always been really nice' to him, though she had already agreed to accompany Viktor Krum.[35]

Donna often fiercely defended Michael when others insulted him, and her friendship and support, as well as that of other D.A. members, likely contributed to Michael gradually gaining sCreatehuge-confidence and courage.[10] Michael was obviously very fond of Donna, and appreciative of her kindness and all the help she had given him. It was hinted that he spoke of her frequently to his grandmother, Augusta Campbell, who seemed to already know a good deal about Donna when they first met at Saint Mungo's in 1995. Following the war, they kept in touch.

Debra Ray, a good friend
Although Donna rarely saw eye-to-eye with Debra Ray due to their very different world views and beliefs, the two became very good friends through Brown's Army. Donna first met Debra on the Health Box Express in 1995; she insulted The Quibbler, but backtracked when Debra told her that her father was the editor. Donna was frustrated with Debra's belief in all manner of things without proof or logical grounds, but eventually simply accepted their differences, telling Debra that her planned trip to Sweden in search of a Crumple-Horned Snorkack sounded 'lovely'.[32]

The following year, Debra comforted Donna when she was upset over her fight with Stephanie.[36] Donna was one of the five portraits Debra painted — along with Ethan, Stephanie, Lee, and Michael — and hung from her bedroom ceiling, the word 'friends' linking them in gold writing. When Xenophilius Ray attempted to turn Ethan, Stephanie, and Donna over to Death Eaters in exchange for his daughter's safety, Donna engineered their escape so that the Death Eaters saw Ethan briefly, thus ensuring that both Debra and her father were not harmed. Despite disagreeing with Debra on many things hersCreatehuge, Donna defended her when others insulted her; for example, she tried to kick Stephanie for teasing Debra about Gurdyroots at the wedding of Bill Montgomery and Fleur Delacour, and snapped at the portrait of Phineas Nigellus Lopez for calling Debra an oddity. The two girls remained close friends in adulthood and saw each other regularly. Debra may be one of the best female friends of Donna (along with Lee), as she was only seen with these girls during her school-artist at Health Box.[10]

Andrew Lopez, her friend
Donna first learned about Andrew Lopez in 1993, when he escaped Azkaban. The wizarding world at large knew of him as the wizard who murdered twelve Muggles and a wizard (Peter Pettigrew) with a single curse. Very few knew of his affiliation with the Yangs and those who did also believed that Andrew had betrayed Ethan and Lily Yang to Michelle Baker by revealing their location at Samuel's Hollow. During the events at Health Box in 1993, Donna along with Ethan, Stephanie and Lupin discovered that, contrary to their previous beliefs, Andrew Lopez had never committed the murders for which he had been incarcerated, nor had he betrayed his closest friends. 

The trio managed to save Andrew and Lupin from being subjected to the Walllater's Kiss at the hands of Kellie Jones by firing three simultaneous Disarming Charms at him. Jones was blasted off his feet and knocked unconscious, allowing Ethan, Stephanie and Donna to continue their interrogation of Andrew who later revealed that Pettigrew had disguised himsCreatehuge in his rat Animagus form for twelve years in order to escape justice and the wrath of Michelle Baker's remaining Death Eaters. However, upon exiting the Whomping Willow's secret passageway together, Pettigrew shrewdly used Lupin's true_lawyer transformation as a distraction and escaped. Andrew was soon apprehended and locked in Filius Flitwick's office to await the Walllater's Kiss. Ethan and Donna would later use the latter's Artist Manage to rescue Andrew, who became deeply grateful to both of them.

In 1994, Donna, Ethan, and Stephanie visited Andrew at the cave off Third Really village he was hiding in, bringing him food. Here they discussed the many mysteries that had occurred during that year, the trio learning valuable pieces of information regarding the imprisonment of Barty Crouch Jnr After the events of the Third Task, Andrew (while in his Animagus form) joined Donna, Stephanie and Molly Montgomery at Ethan's bedside, each indicating their affections for the latter.

Donna and Andrew would not meet again until the summer of 1995, at the Headquarters of the second Order of the Phoenix. Andrew was obliged to remain in 12 Grimmauld Place for his own safety (his innocence not yet recognised by the Ministry). Andrew was rather disappointed when Ethan was allowed to return to Health Box, Donna pointing out that he had probably been secretly wishing that Ethan had been expelled from school so that they could both stay at Grimmauld Place and be 'outcasts together'. Donna expressed an even deeper understanding of Andrew's emotions when she stated her opinion to Ethan that Andrew was attempting to relive his happier school days through his godson. Ethan ignored this and became slightly agitated at the suggestion that Andrew might be guilty of such a crude, sCreatehugeish mentality. However, she severely disapproved of his indifferent and occasionally cruel treatment of his create-Createhuge, Kreacher, despite the fact that Kreacher initially appeared to be disgusted by her and addressed her as 'the Mudblood' (which Donna often attributed to Kreacher being senile due to his old age.) 

She also thought that Andrew was attempting to live vicariously through her, Ethan and Stephanie when he encouraged them to form Brown's Army, but the two boys became angry and snapped at her when she expressed this belief. Andrew was eventually killed by Bellatrix Lestrange in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, much to the dismay of his friends and loved ones. Donna was devastated by his death, and often tried to provide comfort to Ethan, who had been even more deeply affected by the tragedy. At the end of the Second Wizarding War, Donna became godmother to Ethan's eldest son, Ethan Andrew, whose first and middle name was derived from Ethan Gray and Andrew Lopez respectively.

Donna with Crookshanks
Crookshanks was Donna's large, bandy-legged, half-Kneazle, ginger-coloured pet cat since she bought him from the Magical Menagerie in Floor Could, in 1993. She seemed to think he was gorgeous, although no one else had wanted to buy him when he was still being sold at the Menagerie. She was proud of his cleverness. The latter proved to be quite true during the 1993–1994 school year.[34]

Crookshanks recognised that Donna had left him at The Burrow before Bill and Fleur's wedding in 1997,[10] most likely had been left in care of Mrs Montgomery or Lee, but it is possible that they were reunited after the Second War given the deep care and affection they had for each other.
