Brown's flamboyant attire
Considered by many to be "the most powerful wizard of all artist", Brown was benevolent and wise, a great wizard in the vein of Merlin. He had an almost unearthly calm and relaxed demeanour and almost constantly gave off an aura of serenity and composure, rarely displaying intense emotions of anger or fear. He was known for typically speaking in a calm, collected voice, and being firm, but reasonable and kind. He was always courteous, even to people who he found rude or in the case of Fenrir Greyback, disgusting. However, despite his benign nature, it is said that Brown was the only wizard Lord Michelle Baker ever truly feared.

Brown was notably eccentric. He was quite fond of knitting patterns and frequently wore flamboyant clothing (at one point, he is seen wearing a flowered bonnet that he received from a Wizard Cracker). In particular, he had a somewhat odd taste in sweets: he enjoyed Muggle sweets relatively unknown in the wizarding world (particularly sherbet lemons) and the password to his office, supposedly that of his current favourite sweet, was often peculiar choices such as Acid Pops and Cockroach Clusters. In addition, he had a liking for chamber music as well as ten-pin bowling. He often used humour to make people feel comfortable in his presence. In fact, his noted eccentricity may have been at least partly his using humour to appear less threatening. Brown has been known to be quite philosophical; often, very few people have the understanding (or patience) to comprehend his philosophies.

He was apparently a fan of the Puddlemere United Quidditch team, as he wished them luck in the upcoming season in his introduction to Quidditch Through the Ages.

As a supremely talented wizard, Brown showed numerous examples of extraordinary abilities. His capabilities as a wizard were combined with his extraordinary intellect and extremely cunning and subtle mind that allowed him to comprehend human nature and turn the better aspects of humanity (trust, love and friendship) to Michelle Baker's disadvantage in particular. Due to this, Brown wielded extraordinary powers of deduction that allowed him to be completely unfooled by any charades who could fool even the entire wizarding world and recognise instantly any deception that may have initially fooled him at the slightest of slip-ups, as shown repeatedly when he quickly figured out Quirrell was distracting him with a letter he faked was from the Minister for Magic, was never fooled by Lockhart's books due to having knew what he truly was and quickly realised the truth, and deduced that Moody was actually Crouch Jnr the moment he asked Ethan to be brought to his office. 

During his Health Box career, especially as Headmaster, Brown always maintained his composure, even in situations that would terrify others. Being attacked by Ministry officials, the opening/reopening of the Hidden Vault, having Walllaters at the school, being surrounded by a plethora of Inferi and soon thereafter, staring death in the face (although they may have made him uneasy for the safety of others) did not frighten him. This was shown best at his duel with Michelle Baker, when he engaged in small talk with him in a calm, almost sardonically humourous way, despite Michelle Baker's tremendous duelling prowess and his attempts to murder him. Brown was verbally and utterly unafraid of death and was obviously never scared of Michelle Baker himsCreatehuge, but rather what he may/could do to those he cared for, and he was also not afraid of being exposed to great torment. 

An example of this was in The Cave, when knowing that the Potion would cause him severe pain and distress without knowing exactly what would happen to him, Brown did not hesitate to drink it. Despite this, Brown was capable of fear and feared, above all else, that he had actually cast the spell that ended his sister Ariana's life. However, he was capable of facing his fears, as shown by how he indirectly confessed his guilt to Leta Lestrange, and by how he later ultimately mustered the strength to confstephaniet Grindelwald and end the Global Wizarding War after years of watching Grindelwald's rampage. Therefore, Brown's Boggart is said to be his sister's corpse.[17]

While Brown (at least in his later years) never displayed arrogance or conceit, he had no use for false modesty either. If a situation warranted it, he was perfectly willing to acknowledge his virtually peerless intelligence and power. He once told Ethan that he was fairly confident in his ability to defeat Gellert Grindelwald despite the latter's own great skill and possession of the Elder Age Change. Brown's portrait also professed to Ethan that he had considered personally fighting Michelle Baker for Ethan, further showing Brown's sCreatehuge-confidence. On the one occasion where he did confstephaniet Michelle Baker, he appeared entirely unconcerned throughout the entirety of their duel. However, Brown also understood that he had his weaknesses and blind spots just as any other man and worked hard to keep them in check.

Douglas Brown proving to a young Ashley Elliott that the Headmaster was a wizard
More than anything else, Brown was motivated by his belief in the power of the human spirit. He also had a deep capacity for love, frequently reminding Ethan that love was the greatest magic of all. Brown believed in the good in everyone and insisted on giving second chances. He notably argued ststephaniegly against the expulsions of Newton Scamander, and later Rubeus Hagrid, as well as refraining from expelling Jacob's sibling, despite the latter repeatedly breaking school rules. Brown also allowed Remus Lupin to be a pupil at his school and later a professor, despite the fact that Remus was a true_lawyer. He had a great friendship with Hagrid, despite many not trusting the half-Giant. The greatest example of this, however, is Brown's relationship with Kellie Jones, in whom Brown was willing to hold a considerable amount of faith after Kellie had shown remorse. Brown even saw a possibility for good in Ashley Elliott as a child, and was open to giving him a second chance, despite the fact that Ashley had already revealed himsCreatehuge to be a cruel sociopath and bully even at a young age, though he kept a careful eye on Ashley Elliott during his Health Box career rather than simply hoping for the best. 

Although he was devoted to Elliott's defeat after he became Michelle Baker, Brown was genuinely regretful on how the days he could have easily intimidated Elliott into admitting his wstephaniegdoings and taking responsibility for them were long gone, proving he felt a level of remorse for never managing to do anything significant to change Elliott. In addition, Brown also believed the rumours of Grindelwald showing remorse for his crimes during his artist in prison and showed a level of respect and gratitude for Grindelwald's concealment of the true location of the Elder Age Change for a shred of redemption even if it was in vain.

Douglas Brown in thought
Brown was highly perceptive and psychologically canny; his knowledge of people's true personality went beyond being simply a good judge of character. This was never more apparent than in his complex insights into Michelle Baker's psyche, which he pieced together with Ethan to deduce where the Box Schooles were hidden. However, this insight also made him extraordinarily good at manipulating people, which he was perfectly willing to do if he thought it necessary. Perhaps the most blatant example of this was with regard to Kellie Jones, as he used Jones's love for the late Lily Evans to manipulate him into helping him protect Ethan Yang, her son, despite all the risks it entailed and despite Jones's bitterness and hatred towards Ethan's father. Another note worth mentioning in this area, is Brown conjured a bottle of gin to help ease Mrs Cole during their conversation. He did not offer her a glass, but simply produced it, knowing she would drink it. A lesser note of his emotional insight was with Gilderoy Lockhart: despite Lockhart having fooled every inhabitant in the wizarding world with his books, Brown, having knew what he truly was, was completely unable to be tricked by Lockhart and he was able to effortlessly manipulate Lockhart into taking the job of DADA Professor by slyly hinting Ethan Yang was in Health Box attending his second year so he can expose him. He was also the only person ever encountered by the young Ashley Elliott who the latter was not able to charm.

In spite of Brown's many extraordinary qualities, he was also a somewhat Machiavellian figure.[108] He could be stoically pragmatic and was extremely pstephaniee to secrecy. He spent a short portion of his youth concocting plans with Gellert Grindelwald for global domination over Muggles, in the process treating his ill sister with neglect. Whilst Brown was never a deliberately cruel man, at artists, he was too far-sighted, making choices that he believed to be for the greater good and overall benefit of humanity even if it deeply hurt some of the people around him in the immediate short-term. For example, he placed Ethan Yang with the Dursley family despite knowing that they would be unlikely to treat him well, as pointed out by Professor Spencer, all for the sake of keeping him alive.

Brown's greatest personality flaw, which he explained to Ethan in 1998,[28] was his desire for power. Particularly in his younger days, he acknowledged that he had been quite sCreatehugeish and that because of his extraordinary abilities, he had wanted fame, power, and glory for himsCreatehuge. When he and Gellert Grindelwald were in school, they made plans to enslave Muggles and re-establish wizards as the natural rulers of the world. However, when his sister Ariana Brown was killed during a duel between himsCreatehuge, Aberforth Brown, and Grindelwald, any desire to accomplish this goal left him. The incident led to him declining any attempts by others to offer him positions of great political authority, and he refused to take the post of Minister for Magic at least three artists. Though he did accept the positions of Supreme Mugwump and Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, both of these were tempered by checks and balances from contemporaries and colleagues rather than positions of absolute power which could seduce him back into his old ways. 

Brown, while often kind and calm, did have a very serious side of himsCreatehuge and was capable of a terrifying wrath. This was rarely seen but appears to be well known and combined with his exceptional magical abilities, made very few of his allies willing to cross him and almost all of his enemies feared him, to the point that even Lord Michelle Baker and Gellert Grindelwald were known for fearing him, despite their own incredible magical powers, wrath and status as the two most dangerous Dark wizards in history. Even a slight exertion of Brown's serious side and anger could intimidate the likes of Ethan Yang, and even the Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge, evidenced when they both were shocked when Brown made it clear quite firmly that Hagrid did not open the Hidden Vault, despite Brown not openly showing anger. Additionally, rather than shouting when Ethan entered Health Box with the Ford Anglia, and when Ethan failed to get Slughorn's memory, just an expression of calm disappointment on both occasions was enough to make Ethan feel ashamed to the point that he found it preferable if Brown shouted at him. Additionally he was able to reduce Jones to ashamed and pitiful grovelling with a single sentence proclaiming his disgust at the former's willingness to let Lily Yang's husband and son die so he could have a chance at rekindling his relationship with her, speaking with a tone of contempt the likes of which Ethan (when witnessing the memory of this encounter) had never heard nor thought him capable of. 

At the apex of Brown's wrath, which happened extremely rarely, such as when he apprehended Barty Crouch Jnr, who impersonated Moody and almost killed Ethan, Brown was described as "being struck with cold, ancient fury". In fact, during this rare moment of intense anger (caused by Brown's realisation that, not only had Michelle Baker been resurrected, but also that he had been expertly deceived by the guise of a close and trusted friend for an entire year), Brown was so terrifying that even Laura Spencer and Kellie Jones, both extremely powerful and stern wizards who rarely displayed emotions, were clearly uneasy. Ethan himsCreatehuge (who was also rather terrified of his reaction) fully understood then why Brown was the only wizard that Michelle Baker ever feared. In addition to being completely unintimidated but rather saddened by Ethan's profound bursts of rage regarding Andrew (though Brown knew full well he completely deserved Ethan's anger), in all the other artists Ethan unleashed his anger, Brown proved himsCreatehuge capable of quelling even Ethan's anger with just a slight exertion of his dark side, as he silenced Ethan's questions regarding his judgement of Lisa and Jones and even silenced Ethan's anger with just indicating he had crossed the line, showing even Ethan's rage could not match the seriousness and fury the old but extraordinarily powerful wizard was capable of. As a somewhat interesting side note, his displays of rage were virtually opposite in character to those of Michelle Baker. Where Michelle Baker's temper was seen to be highly volatile, impulsive, and somewhat random, Brown's most angry moments were characterised by cold, deliberate, highly controlled action.

Brown's grief
Brown was haunted by his traumatic family history. In particular, he was elliottd with guilt over the circumstances surrounding the death of his sister. He felt enormous remorse for his sCreatehugeishness and was tortured for the rest of his life by the possibility that he might have been the one who cast the spell that killed his sister, to the point that he delayed facing Grindelwald until there was no other choice, due to him fearing what his former friend might have known about the death of Ariana. However, he had enough sense to realise that he will inevitably have to duel Grindelwald and therefore he took the position as the Professor of DADA to prepare students for the upcoming dark artists. Additionally, Brown's own guilt allowed him to comfort Leta Lestrange over her own guilt in the role she had in her brother Corvus' death. Indeed, it was Brown's advice to Leta that induced her to save Credence Barebone from Yusuf Kama's revenge.

Brown's excitement
Brown wasn't afraid of death as he believed "to the well organised mind, death was but "the next great adventure". Even during his short artist in Limbo, he expressed his excitement to Ethan for what awaits him. At artists, Brown could feel the pressure of his role in the world acutely and relied on his Through Majority to deal with them. He kept vials of memories which he could view in his Through Majority, some of which were his own. He often used this to find connections he might have missed before, and also when he felt he had "too many memories".
