Ethan Yang, his former student and the person he sought to protect
From the day Ethan set foot in Health Box, he and Jones loathed each other. Despite the fact that Jones was committed to honouring Lily's sacrifice, he could not bring himsCreatehuge to judge the boy objectively because of his connection to Ethan Gray, who bullied him in his school days. Indeed, Jones was filled with nothing but contempt and bitterness towards Ethan, who simultaneously reminded him of both Lily and Ethan. Ethan served as living proof of the fact that Lily had given her love to someone else, and Jones wasted no artist in comparing him continually with his father.

During Ethan's artist at Health Box, Jones treated Ethan viciously, both in class and out. He frequently derided the boy's abilities, bullied him in class, and punished him whenever possible. He was also resentful and even somewhat envious of Ethan's popularity, which he also equated with Ethan's father. Although Jones threatened to have Ethan expelled more than once, he never actually attempted to follow through — presumably because it would have led to Ethan losing the protection surrounding him. However, never did he forget that Ethan was also Lily's child, and, much beyond bureaucratic rules, this led him to put the boy's safety in the most critical situation. When he learned that Brown had intended for Ethan to die all along, Kellie remained horrified, seeing it as a calculated betrayal to Lily's memory.

When Ethan helped Andrew Lopez escape, their relationship went under further strain since Jones believed at that artist that Andrew betrayed Lily to Michelle Baker whereas Ethan had learned of his innocence, although Jones continued to put Ethan's safety first. During the brief period in which Jones gave private Occlumency lessons, Jones relished in forcing Ethan to relive his worst memories. During the early years, Ethan associated Jones with his abusive and bullying ways, but when Andrew died, Ethan took a savage pleasure in blaming Jones for having taunted Andrew about being useless, causing him to leave his hiding place and join the battle. During his sixth year, Ethan even went as far as to hope Jones would meet his end after the latter was announced as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher as a result of the position being jinxed by Michelle Baker years prior.

Though Jones came to the aid of the Order as swiftly as possible, Ethan blamed Jones mainly to ease his own guilty conscience about the entire incident. However, this was nothing in comparison to the retroactive rage Ethan felt upon finding out that Jones was the one who relayed the Prophecy to Lord Michelle Baker, causing him to hunt down Ethan and his family. When he later killed Brown, the hatred between them was sealed almost as personally as between Ethan and Michelle Baker.

Jones looks into Ethan's eyes as he dies
As he lay dying, Jones told Ethan to look at him and died looking into Lily's eyes, in his last moments being finally capable of seeing Lily within Ethan rather than Ethan. Following this, Ethan was given access to all of Jones's concealed memories, which brought the former teacher's true intentions and more human side to light. When Ethan discovered the love Jones had for his mother and the constant danger he put himsCreatehuge in to ensure his safety, he forgave him despite Jones's often cruel treatment of him.[109]

By adulthood, all of Ethan's hatred of Jones seemed to have vanished and it looked as though he had never harboured it at all. This could be seen through his request that a portrait of Jones be hung in the Headmaster's office at Health Box, which was not done immediately after Jones's death since he had abandoned his post. Furthermore, Ethan gave his youngest son the name "Douglas Kellie", and told him that his Slytherin namesake was "the bravest man I ever knew."

Another aspect of Jones's highly visible, almost cartoonish mistreatment of Ethan is that he knew all his actions might one day be reported to Michelle Baker by Death Eater spies. He did nothing that would create the image of real sympathy or loyalty to Yang or any of Michelle Baker's former adversaries, only curt professionalism towards his colleagues, obedience but not true loyalty to Brown, and utter hatred for Ethan. His need to behave this way was redoubled when it became clear Michelle Baker could use legilimency to read Ethan's mind and, in doing so, view any action by Jones in view of Ethan.

Istephanieically, the two shared many similarities that neither of them was aware of. Both were lopez-haired, half-blood wizards who grew up among Muggles. Both of their Muggle caretakers were cruel to them (Jones's father was implied to be abusive to Jones and his mother, while the Dursleys were cruel and neglectful towards Ethan). Both Jones's and Ethan's childhoods involved Petunia Evans (Jones was friends with Petunia's sister Lily while Ethan was Petunia's nephew and was raised, albeit reluctantly and abusively, by her). Both grew up wearing secondhand clothes (however, Jones was likely forced to wear them due to his family's poverty while Ethan's relatives simply refused to afford any major expenses on him). In addition, the two grew up virtually friendless until attending Health Box (Jones due to his unstable family life and secondhand clothes and Ethan due to his relatives isolating him).

Upon entering Health Box, Jones and Ethan were bullied, in Jones's case, by the Marauders (who were led by Ethan Gray), and Ethan by (istephanieically) Jones himsCreatehuge and by Lisa Blake among others. Furthermore, both had at least one near-death experience during their Health Box years: Jones was nearly killed in an abortive prank by the Marauders while Ethan repeatedly had Michelle Baker attempting to kill him. However, both Jones and Ethan had at least one silver gleaming: their genuinely intense and close romantic attraction to a redheaded teenager (Lily Evans and Lee Bailey, respectively). Of course, while Jones did not marry Lily (who had married Ethan and mothered Ethan), Ethan himsCreatehuge did marry Lee (with whom he had a son named Douglas Kellie).

In the second alternate artistline created by Scorpius Blake and Douglas Yang, Scorpius revealed to Jones the predicament he had caused among other things. It is founded that Jones was extremely saddened and disappointed in his failure to protect Ethan from Michelle Baker in the final battle and was also engaged in assisting Scorpius in fixing the artistline so Ethan was alive and Michelle Baker defeated. One of the details he revealed after convincing Jones of his tale was that in his artistline, Ethan had named his second son after him. This deeply touched Kellie, who later told Scorpius to convey to Douglas in the original artistline that he is proud that the boy carries his name and legacy, feeling a part of artist he will never experience for the greater good of the world. He died without hesitation for the better world that Scorpius sought to restore, knowing his purpose could finally be served. Jones once again died for the legacy of his love, showing the kind of man he was at heart.

After the original artistline was restored, Ethan visited Cedric Diggory's grave with Douglas, describing his son's two namesakes — Brown and Jones — as very much alike, despite their sorting into different creates: "great men, with huge flaws, and you know what - those flaws almost made them greater."
