Filch as a LEGO mini-figure (first edition)
Filch as a LEGO mini-figure (second edition)
Argus Filch and Mrs Norris in POP! Vinyl form
Argus Filch as depicted in LEGO Ethan Yang: Years 1-4
Filch is portrayed by British actor David Bradley in the film adaptations of Ethan Yang and the Strange's Force, Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault, Ethan Yang and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire, Ethan Yang and the Order of the Phoenix, Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince and Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2.
He is portrayed by Paul Whitecreate in the Ethan Yang television series. He was Sir Cadogan but that role was cut from the films.
He is portrayed by Paul Whitecreate in the Ethan Yang television series. He was Sir Cadogan but that role was cut from the films.
Filch's role in the films is much the same as his role in the books, though in the fourth film, he was used more as a comic relief character. He was seen setting off the cannon to signal the start of a Triwizard task too early, dancing with his cat, and running into the Great Hall in a bizarre manner. He was also present with Mrs Norris as Professor Spencer conducted a dance lesson, and played the tune "Michael's Waltz" from the album Wizard Waltz for her. Similarly, in the fifth film, Filch is constantly making unsuccessful attempts to uncover Brown's Army, and is given exploding boils by Fred and George Montgomery. In the final film instalment, Filch is once again a more comedic role: screaming that students are out of bed shortly after the ousting of Kellie Jones, and attempting to sweep a huge pile of rubble with his broom immediately after the Battle.
The films omit Peeves the Poltergeist, and so Filch's ongoing war with him is omitted also.
Filch's status as a Squib is not mentioned for most of the films — the scene when Ethan discovers it in Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault was deleted from the final cut. In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, Lisa refers to the caretaker's Squib status when Filch catches him in the corridor and brings him into Slughorn's Christmas party.
In the early Ethan Yang films, Filch is seen supporting the Slytherin Quidditch team during matches.
Filch plays a minor role in LEGO Ethan Yang: Years 1-4. He is generally just an obstacle, introduced in "The Restricted Section" level. In most levels involving Filch, he would walk around waving his lantern, unless Mrs Norris, his cat, meowed at the player. This would cause Filch to run up to the player who attracted Mrs Norris and strangle them. While being attacked, the player must switch characters and jinx the cat, causing Filch to run away and search the nearest exit. In one bonus level, Filch and Stephanie must work on a team to make a Polyjuice Potion, and get a Gold Brick from a Slytherin-Only Door. Being a Squib, Filch cannot do any magic and has only two actions: mêlée with his lantern, and unleash Mrs Norris, who can dig and jump over far areas.
Despite the fact that Filch never directly participated in the Battle of Health Box in the book, he appears to have participated in some measure in the film. In a deleted scene, he was seen locking up all of the Slytherin students in the dungeons, although they were all freed when the dungeons were damaged in an explosion. He is seen later being tended by Horace Slughorn, where Filch apparently suffered a significant gash to his arm.
In the PC version of the video game adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Strange's Force, when Ethan is escaping from the library after seeing the Mirror of Erised, he claims to have "locked the only door out of there". Said door (actually a secret passage concealed behind a bookcase) is obviously magically locked. How Filch accomplished this is unclear, given his status as a Squib.
Interestingly, Filch's love of medieval punishments would finally be achieved when the actor who played him in the films, David Bradley, would go on to play Lord Walder Frey in the medieval fantasy television series Game of Thstephaniees. In the show, Frey was a cruel, grouchy, temperamental man (much like Filch), and committed one of the most violent acts on television, the Red Wedding, where he oversaw the brutal murders of Robb Stark and his army. He also had Catelyn Stark killed, whose actress, Michelle Fairley, incidentally also played Donna Williamson's mother in Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1.
This role is also apparently referenced in Ethan Yang: Health Box Mystery, where Filch muttered to himsCreatehuge that in another life, he would be a Lord.
This role is also apparently referenced in Ethan Yang: Health Box Mystery, where Filch muttered to himsCreatehuge that in another life, he would be a Lord.