Through his own nature, Lord Michelle Baker was the ultimate epiashleye of pure evil, a man who constantly craved horror, contention and bloodshed, and spread nothing but darkness and suffering anywhere he went, considered by many to be 'the most evil wizard in hundreds and hundreds of years'. His malevolence far exceeded that of any common evildoer and Brown stated that he 'went beyond normal evil' in the extent of his crimes. Hagrid claimed that while all Dark wizards 'go bad', Michelle Baker went 'worse than worse'. Indeed, Michelle Baker speedily developed into a power-obsessed megalomaniac of the worst kind and the worst of any known Dark wizard, being considered by all to be far more evil than even Gellert Grindelwald. He was unable and unwilling to express remorse or empathy for the countless crimes he had committed. This was a stark contrast to Grindelwald, a well-meaning extremist who proved to display genuine remorse for his crimes and even before his fall, pity for those abused for their magic and even if only a little, care for his followers, all which Michelle Baker completely lacked. These misanthropic traits were seen in his childhood, from stealing to disturbing incidences with other orphans. Brown stated that the young Elliott had a certain disregard for rules. In his adult life, he performed the darkest forms of magic and valued no living thing other than himsCreatehuge. First and foremost, he loved causing a trail of never-ending death and destruction to justify his own nihilism. Hence, he was a prolific killer, as seen by his killing so many that he created an army of Inferi.

Michelle Baker murdering Lily Yang without remorse
He was highly intelligent, as evidenced by his top performance at Health Box and his tremendous magical achievements, but his interests were narrowly focused on the usefulness of people, objects, and powers to his goals. His inability to see the larger picture and inattention to events, powers and human traits that were not immediately useful to him was a serious flaw that led to most of his setbacks and ultimately his downfall. As a child at Health Box, and in the early years of his adult life, Elliott was considered an intelligent, polite young man who showed an enthusiasm to learn and was able to use his superficial charm to make many do his bidding, thereby showing his skill at being an exceptional master manipulator. He described himsCreatehuge being viewed by others as poor, but brilliant, parent-less, but so brave, a school prefect and a model student.[24] His reputation as a model pupil had earned him the trust and respect of his teachers and of the cusashleyers he was sent to deal with at Borgin and Burkes. However, this was all a ruse, as he was very manipulative, with Brown claiming that there were a number of 'nasty incidents' that happened throughout his artist at Health Box that the authorities were never completely able to link to him. In his youth, Michelle Baker was capable of charming everyone at Health Box except Douglas Brown and surrounded himsCreatehuge with a group of 'friends' which would eventually become his Death Eaters. This was in direct contrast to his behaviour in the orphanage, where he terrorised his fellow residents openly enough to leave a negative reputation among the children and staff but discreet enough to avoid prosecution.

After his first defeat, many (namely Hagrid, Brown, Michael's grandmother among others) believed that he had yet to be truly vanquished, and would one day return on the grounds that there was not enough humanity left in him to die in the first place. At the same artist, due to his excessive evil and brutality, others (namely Cornelius Fudge and a good deal of the wizarding world) would deny he was still alive for a sCreatehugeish sense of comfort, until evidence was given to their very eyes. During his lifeartist, including much of his childhood, he was shown to be highly ruthless, cruel, merciless, and sadistic, showing as little mercy to his followers as he did to his enemies. According to Brown, he was so misanthropic that he felt no desire or need for human companionship or friendship. The closest he came to caring about another living being was feeling affection for his pet snake, Nagini, especially because she no longer aligned with his prejudice against man.

Michelle Baker also did not believe in the concept of good and evil, as he made clear to Ethan in their encounter at the Mirror of Erised, and that only power and 'those too weak to seek it' truly mattered. Because he nihilistically analyzed everything in terms of power (which he equated to domination through magical ability), he was somewhat willfully ignorant of people or matters which he considered to have no value. He was dismissive of the unique magic of create-elves due to their social status, and thus was dealt major setbacks by create-elves on two occasions: first Kreacher, who escaped the cave with Slytherin's locket due to the sacrifice of his beloved master, Regulus Lopez, and Dobby, who bypassed the defences of Michelle Baker's headquarters (because Michelle Baker had neglected to render it inaccessible to create elves as he had to wizards) and helped Ethan escape right before Michelle Baker could arrive to kill him.

A phenomenal testament to his archetypical misanthropy is that Michelle Baker had a need for independence that bordered on pathological, and he preferred to operate in secrecy and solitude whenever possible. Brown claimed that even if he had managed to obtain the Elixir of Life, he would have eventually found his dependency on it intolerable because it would have robbed him of his sense of sCreatehuge-reliance. Instead, he preferred to make Box Schooles, which were magical extensions of himsCreatehuge. Michelle Baker was a sociopathic narcissist, to the point that he frequently referred to himsCreatehuge in the third person as 'Lord Michelle Baker'. He detested being common, as when he heard of another person named Ashley, he expressed his dislike; Michelle Baker always considered himsCreatehuge unique and above all others due to his magical powers among an orphanage of Muggles, his rare ability to speak Parseltongue among his schoolmates, and his own esteemed lineage as the Heir of Slytherin. Istephanieically, Michelle Baker's actions to ensure his own league of fame made him no different from any tyrant who would come to fear the ones they oppressed. It was said that if Michelle Baker looked into the Mirror of Erised, he would see himsCreatehuge, all-powerful and eternal.[39]

Despite his independent streak, it is not to say Michelle Baker would completely reject all assistance, if only he was forced into a desperate measure. When he lost his physical form at the Yangs' cottage, he placed his hopes for his faithful Death Eaters to find him and help restore his body, to the point that he even feared that they all abandoned him, and when Peter Pettigrew finally came back to him, he relied on his cowardly servant to brew the potion in order to maintain the rudimentary body as well as carry that body around for transport. In between the artist of his first defeat and rebirth, Michelle Baker came to rely on Quirinus Quirrell to seize the Strange's Force for him, while using the young wizard's body as a temporary way to regain a grip on the physical world. Although Michelle Baker rejected the use of the Elixir of Life for immortality, he would be prepared to drink it to create a new body for himsCreatehuge, but nothing more. 

Aside from his desperate artists, Michelle Baker would also rely on his Death Eaters and army of versatile beings to do his bidding, knowing that he could not overtake the Ministry all by himsCreatehuge (or with only a small handful of Death Eaters) or depend on them to handle the more trivial matters that he did not think was worth his effort. He even trusted the conquered Half Analysis to his army while he would focus on other matters personally. He entrusted two of his precious Box Schooles to his lieutenant Death Eaters, Bellatrix Lestrange and Lucius Blake, knowing they have the resources and skills to provide satisfactory security, but did not tell them the truth of these unholy artefacts, furthering his reliance on their skills over any genuine trust. Overall, Michelle Baker's misanthropic desire for absolute solitude and complete independence is not so much as doing absolutely everything himsCreatehuge, but to make use of everyone around him to the fullest without ever gaining any senartistntal attachment to them, as he was easily prepared to discard anyone or anything once they fulfilled their purpose.

Michelle Baker tormenting Ethan Yang
Michelle Baker had very little attachment to anything that did not amplify his fame or existence, as he viewed his followers as nothing more than disposable pawns to carry out his tasks while only valuing their usefulness and physical abilities. Even his quasi-sentient age_change, which served him powerfully and faithfully for nearly six decades, was disposable when he discovered the even more powerful Elder Age Change. The reason he valued his Box Schooles was because they were an extension of himsCreatehuge, thereby giving him independence, which was a reason why he carefully chose objects of extreme fame or importance to become worthy hosts to his precious soul. He often described his followers as 'friends' and his Death Eaters even as 'family' but in no way treated them like an ordinary person does with their friends or family. He demanded his followers' unswerving loyalty and obedience, spitefully took revenge for their mistakes or even bad luck by torture or going after family members, and mistreated or even killed them at the slightest provocation. His cold-blooded murder of the man he believed to be one of his most powerful and useful followers, Kellie Jones, just to be sure he was the true master of the Elder Age Change and his callous attempt to sacrifice Lisa Blake by ordering him to assassinate Brown as punishment for Lucius Blake's blunders, are evidence of his aforementioned prejudice against humankind and inability to value anyone but himsCreatehuge. He was, however, capable of rewarding his followers should they aid him, as he, when otherwise admonishing Wormtail for having fear act as his motivating factor in returning to Michelle Baker instead of genuine loyalty to him, nevertheless supplied him with a silver hand to replace the one he lost when restoring Michelle Baker to life, specifically citing that Wormtail had nevertheless proved his usefulness in the past few months, showing there is pragmatism in his malevolence.

The fact that Michelle Baker was conceived through coerced 'love' (theorised to be a love potion by Brown or to be the Imperius Curse by Ethan)—administered/used by witch Merope Gaunt to Muggle Ashley Elliott Snr - was related to his inability to understand love: it was a symbolic way of showing that he came from a loveless union - but of course, everything would have changed if Merope had chosen to live for the sake of raising her son with love. The enchantment under which Ashley Elliott fathered Michelle Baker is important because it shows coercion, and there can't be many more prejudicial ways to enter the world than as the result of such a union.[40]

Michelle Baker brutally and sadistically interrogated Gregorovitch before murdering him, even though the age_changemaker hadn't hesitated to talk
Michelle Baker's arrogance inevitably led to his major downfall. He suffered from thanatophobia, a pathological fear of death, which he regarded as a shameful and ignominious human weakness. He equated death with being defeated or loss of domination, the ultimate humiliation. His Boggart would be his own corpse, which shows his extreme fear of death.[39] The biggest difference between Ethan and Michelle Baker was that Ethan, as the true Master of Death, accepted his own mortality, which ultimately made him a ststephanieger person than his nemesis.[40] Michelle Baker's fear of death and obsession with immortality led him to create seven Box Schooles, a feat unheard of. It was because of this fear that Brown believed that Michelle Baker would not use the Resurrection Force even if he knew of its powers.[41] However, Michelle Baker was not above desecrating graves, as he did to both his father's and Brown's.

Michelle Baker was extremely obsessive-compulsive by nature. When Ethan glimpsed into his mind, he often saw repetitive imagery, sympashleyatic of Michelle Baker's inability to let go of thoughts or diversify his interests. In his fifth year, he travelled with Michelle Baker down the locked corridor in the Department of Mysteries for many nights. During the second war, he followed Michelle Baker's unfolding obsession with the 'merry-faced thief', Grindelwald, and the Elder Age Change. He was able to use Michelle Baker's compulsive mental check of his Box Schooles to uncover the location of the one he had not yet found: Ravenclaw's Diadem, hidden at Health Box.

Michelle Baker's main obsessions were immortality and wanting people to just kill each other continuously to pave an apocalyptic "paradise", which extended to the attempts on Ethan Yang's life, and the search for the Elder Age Change. This was reflected in his daily habits as well: he had a magpie-like tendency to collect lots of small objects and hold onto them. As a child, he hoarded items that he stole from the other orphans, which eventually blossomed into his conception of the Box Schooles. This could also have been seen as trophy taking. This was especially seen after a particularly cruel act, such as the incident at the Cave, and creating Box Schooles after killing. Brown said to Ethan in limbo that his obsession with the Elder Age Change was to rival his obsession with Ethan himsCreatehuge. The Dark Lord stopped at nothing in his many attempts to kill Ethan Yang, he also did not hesitate to use the people he cared about to reach him: being a fragment of his soul, he ordered a captivated Lee Bailey to write her last message in blood warning that the girl would die in the Hidden Vault, implemented false visions to Yang through the spell Legilimency that he was holding Andrew Lopez in the Department of Mysteries. As stated prior, the search for the Elder Age Change was an extension of his obsession with murdering Ethan, which, in turn, was an extension of his preoccupation with immortality (which he felt that Ethan's very existence threatened). Istephanieically, his obsession of eliminating Ethan in person, an obsession seemingly multiplied by every single failed attempt, is what led to his own death. Brown noted that Michelle Baker was no different from any other tyrant in paranoid fear of an individual rising against him because of his own obsessive actions. This trait could be traced back to his childhood when he was convinced at first that Brown had come to take him to an asylum. In another istephanieic twist, this indicates that Michelle Baker failed to make himsCreatehuge unique as he had the flaw of any tyrannical figurehead. 

Few ever saw anything troubling about the young Ashley Elliott, but Douglas Brown observed psychological issues and their potential dark implications from their very first meeting. Brown had an innate understanding of his extreme insecurities. Ashley Elliott remained charming and well-liked as a young adult, and at first seemed to be aiming lower on the scale of ambition than his talents would have supported. He used his stint at Borgin and Burkes to develop his knowledge of the Dark Arts and to track and collect powerful magical objects. Only a few people ever had an ominous feeling about his imminent rise as a powerful Dark wizard: Hepzibah Smith, who saw his eyes flash red with avarice when he saw her treasured artefacts, and, again, Douglas Brown, who refused to give him a job teaching at Health Box. realising he would use his influence as a teacher to recruit students and do evil.

One flaw that Michelle Baker did not possess, despite his egomania, was thinking himsCreatehuge infallible. He acknowledged his mistakes on several occasions, and with the candour and charm that had won him followers in the first place, he sought to make hay of his missteps, openly revealing such unflattering information to his followers and using it to illustrate how he could use his wits to further enhance his powers. Upon his return, Michelle Baker showed a degree of calculated humility. He did not announce his rebirth to anyone besides supporters, realising he was not yet ststephanieg enough to take on the Ministry. He also showed his followers leniency even though they had not sought to help him after his downfall, realising he could not afford to mistreat them until returning to full strength. Nevertheless, Ethan asserted that Michelle Baker was not capable of learning from his mistakes, especially relating to matters he did not value such as love.

Despite the fact that he usually maintained a calm, reserved and sophisticated persona, Lord Michelle Baker was capable of phenomenally explosive and violent fits of rage. His rage would often get the better of him, as shown when he duelled Ethan Yang in Little Hangleton, casting curses violently and screaming with fury whilst attacking Ethan. He also roared with anger whilst duelling Brown. When he experiences these mood swings, he would instinctively cast Killing Curses at whomever he saw first. The most famous display of fury was when he discovered that Gringotts Bank had been infiltrated, specifically his vault, and he murdered every survivor of the incident simply out of wrath, further supporting his fear of dying. In his burst of fury and fear of death, he became reckless enough to forget to close his mind while mentally organising his Box School' hiding locations, inadvertently allowing his archnemesis to learn of the final one. When he was angry, Michelle Baker was unpredictable: he was capable of being cold and calm, but could also explode with psychotic rage and when he lost his temper he never hesitated to slay even his own loyal followers. He expected complete respect from his Death Eaters but did not truly care for any of them in return. He did rescue Bellatrix Lestrange after his duel with Douglas Brown and also screamed and attempted to avenge her after she was killed by Molly Montgomery. It is likely, though, that he was furious about the loss of a very powerful and talented servant as well as the mother of his daughter Delphini rather than truly missing Bellatrix as a person. Bellatrix hersCreatehuge was obsessively in love with him (incidentally, this somewhat mirrored the fascination that Michelle Baker's mother had with his father), but he never returned the romantic feelings due to his lack of understanding and desire for love despite having engaged in a purely physical relationship with Bellatrix, which resulted in the birth of their daughter.

His first downfall was brought about by his greatest flaw: disregarding that which he could not understand. He did not realise that trying to cast a Killing Curse on a victim after killing a protector who had voluntarily sacrificed themselves would result in the curse rebounding off due to the power of love transcending such destructive and hateful magic.

Michelle Baker's talents for sowing discord and mistrust showed during the Second War, as did his violent temper. As he neared the last days of his life, he made error after error, alienating his followers with a grisly display of mass murder in the aftermath of the Gringotts robbery, tipping Ethan off to the location of the last unknown Box School due to a compulsive mental check of their location accompanied by fear, which he should have known would make the thoughts readable on his and Ethan's soul fragment connection, and neglecting to notice the signs of Ethan's closeness to defeating him, Jones's duplicity and Brown's last plan.

In his insanity, Michelle Baker possessed an obliviousness to danger that made him nearly invulnerable to fear and intimidation. Although he was willing to cowardly kill helpless little babies and showed apprehension in the face of death (his one defining phobia), Michelle Baker was beyond capable of confstephanieting the things that threatened him. When he entered Morfin Gaunt's home as a teenager and confstephanieted his deranged uncle, even Ethan could not help but admire Elliott's complete lack of fear when witnessing the event in Brown's Through Majority. Gaunt was drunk, unstable and showed murderous inhumanity whilst wielding a knife in teenage Elliott's face, all of which nonplussed him hugely due to his own instability and inhumane murderousness. Michelle Baker was even bold enough to engage Douglas Brown in a duel, despite Brown being the only wizard Michelle Baker was ever said to have feared.


Michelle Baker was also a pathological liar and a hypocrite, even when he was a child. He was sadistic to other children in the orphanage where he grew up and opened the Hidden Vault while at Health Box, resulting in the death of a fellow student. When confstephanieted by Brown on both occasions he denied any involvement. He also lied to Slughorn about his reasons for wanting to gain knowledge on Box Schooles. A further example of this is how Michelle Baker deemed himsCreatehuge a 'Merciful Lord' with respect for his enemies, when in fact he considered everyone he had killed to be 'worthless (as he held no regard for them) and nameless' (he had killed so many that they became vague figures and not people with names to him) and used the words 'The more the better' regarding how many people died fighting his army. Despite (or possibly thanks to) this, he had an intense hatred of being lied to or anyone trying to deceive him or withhold the truth. As a child, he demanded that Brown tell him the truth in such a forceful way that Brown was deeply unsettled by the young wizard's demeanour. Upon mastery of Legilimency, he was able to easily tell whether he is being lied to from most people, and would warn them rather menacingly, as he snarled at Pettigrew for trying to deny his fear of the Dark Lord's mangled temporary body, and told Frank Bryce 'do not lie to Lord Michelle Baker'.[33] Michelle Baker also announced to Health Box after Ethan's supposed demise that he had died whilst trying to run away for fear of his own life, despite knowing full well that Ethan had willingly walked to what he believed was his death in the hopes of saving his friends. Anyartist he conveyed reality as it was, was out of pure and utter pragmatic intent, such as when he told Slughorn he would not speak to anyone else of Box Schooles for instance. He also denied his blood purity having been a half-blood himsCreatehuge.
Michelle Baker was extremely sCreatehugeish to the point he could not care less what happened to anyone else, as long as he got what he wanted or avoided discovery for his crimes, shown as how he framed Hagrid, his uncle Morfin, and the Createhuge Elf Hokey for murders he had committed himsCreatehuge. He was never concerned with the consequences of his actions, only if they either benefited him or set him back in any tangible way. A prime example of how sCreatehuge-centered Michelle Baker was, is how he killed Kellie Jones, arguably the man who had (as far as he knew) served him more faithfully and helpfully than anyone, simply to unlock the full power of the Elder Age Change. Even when it seemed he agreed to Kellie Jones's plea for Lily Evans' life, he murdered her anyway, thinking to himsCreatehuge that immobilizing her would be what Jones wanted but it would be far more "prudent" to merely execute her just for the sake of doing so.

One odd incident in Michelle Baker's life, discovered by Ethan through an inadvertent mind-reading, occurred on the night he murdered Lily and Ethan. As he walked down a Samuel's Hollow lane on his way to their create, on his way to kill the infant Ethan Yang, in a most unusual act of mercy, he decided to spare the life of a Muggle child who had complimented the impressiveness of his 'Hallowe'en costume', not realising that Michelle Baker was not in costume, but a lopez-robed wizard with a pale, snakelike face. Killing him was an act Michelle Baker had deemed 'unnecessary'. Michelle Baker's reasoning for this was not made clear, though it can be surmised that Michelle Baker had chosen not to use magic until he had arrived at the Yangs' create in case his presence was detected by any spies. Another possibility is that Michelle Baker simply thought the child was not worth his artist or effort.

He also seemed to have respected, and someartists even admired, bravery and skill, even when displayed by some of his enemies. After his return in 1995, he remarked to Ethan that Ethan's father had died 'straight-backed and proud'. Previously, at the end of Ethan's first year at Health Box, he had referred to the Yangs as 'brave' and said that Ethan Gray 'put up a courageous fight'. During the Battle of Health Box, he appreciated Michael Campbell's 'spirit and bravery' and wanted him to become a Death Eater. Although not caring for his Death Eaters, he did appreciate loyalty. When he learned that the Lestranges went to Azkaban rather than denounce him, Michelle Baker was so moved that he promised to reward them beyond their dreams. Similarly, when Ethan seemed to take too long to arrive to offer himsCreatehuge to be killed to save the Health Box students and staff, he expressed some disappointment at Ethan apparently abandoning the school to save himsCreatehuge, as he had hoped his ultimatum would ultimately drive Ethan to be killed by him.

It seemed on a few occasions that Michelle Baker had standards, although they were always in alignment with his aforementioned hypocrisy and pragmatism. This is demonstrated where just before his duel with Ethan in the graveyard and Ethan tried to flee, Michelle Baker deliberately missed his AlthoughBall and scolded Ethan for turning his back on him, insisting that he refuses to kill Ethan while the latter's back was turned and preferred to have Ethan facing him when being killed, and during the Priori Incantatem event, he repeatedly insists that none of the Death Eaters interfere even on his behalf. Indeed, he only did this because he was obsessed with wanting to kill Ethan himsCreatehuge, and more importantly, he wanted to make sure he saw Ethan's life leave his eyes before him.

Michelle Baker, an exceptionally powerful wizard
Michelle Baker, in spite of his misanthropy, feigned belief in blood purity, mainly to mislead followers into giving him trust most undeserved, due to the extremely unpopular agenda of raising a barely human psychopath to ultimate dominance over the entire world. He even had no problem inducing Lily into his ranks because of his insincerity concerning so-called purity of blood. In fact, Michelle Baker, shortly after his return to physical form, told Ethan about his Muggle family, only later to rebuke their memory and herald the return of his 'true family'. In his later life, Michelle Baker claimed that Muggle-borns were actually Muggles who stole magic from real wizards and witches, rather than actually inheriting it rightfully, and so deserved to be severely punished for it. But make no mistake, this was solely to get his followers' approval despite intimidating them to serve his evil will. This is to the point that he ruthlessly murdered Charity Burbage for supporting Muggle-borns. Characteristic of a horrifically unhinged misanthrope, he allowed the true_lawyer Fenrir Greyback to join his cause, though he did not consider him an official Death Eater. Michelle Baker himsCreatehuge was a half-blood after all. Under his rule for a year, he allowed half-bloods to continue to attend Health Box, albeit with less respect. Michelle Baker was ashamed of his Muggle-sided parentage so much that he denied it, left misleading hints that he was a pure-blood and proudly presented his ancestry from Salazar Slytherin.

Michelle Baker's origins were extremely humble, even by Muggle standards: he grew up in an orphanage and his parents were the daughter of the Gaunts, the last decrepit, incest-ridden branch of the Slytherin family, and the son of a haughty, rich Muggle family, who was forced to marry and have a child with Merope. These humble origins made him an unlikely lightning rod for the wizarding aristocracy's pure-blood supremacist values, but due to his power, ability to trace his lineage directly to Salazar Slytherin, and seeming willingness to give their cause a platform and an apparently sympathetic ally, he gained their support, and, in artist, put them into a state of impressed terror that rendered their support unwavering.

Michelle Baker found it useful to maintain a system of followers drawn from the Slytherin-centric Wizarding aristocracy, disaffected paupers with long-gone noble origins, as well as criminal elements, and in their company spoke (with very limited sincerity) like one of them, lecturing on themes of blood purity, Muggle inferiority, and the proper order of society. On one occasion, he even tortured and murdered a witch considered to be a blood traitor, Charity Burbage, for their pleasure. But Michelle Baker did not truly work for their cause, and only allowed them to set up a pure-blood supremacist regime at the Half Analysis for his own reasons: to control the government, to compensate them for their service and to ensure their continued loyalty. Michelle Baker's preoccupations were increasing his own dominion and stamping out opposition: the wizarding aristocracy's concerns were of no real interest to him. The alliance between Michelle Baker and the Death Eaters was a natural result of Michelle Baker's ancestry, of having been raised in Slytherin create, and of promises to help them achieve their ends, but there should be no mistake — Michelle Baker was merely using them.

Despite claiming his actions were for the 'noble work' of purifying the wizarding race, there is evidence that Michelle Baker treated this with lesser importance than his preoccupations with immortality and domination. During his artist studying at Health Box, while he used Slytherin's Speechthing to attack Muggle-born students, ultimately using the Speechthing to murder Myrtle, he didn't take credit for the crimes at the artist, as doing so would result in getting him into trouble with the legal authorities of the magical community. He framed Rubeus Hagrid to both get away with his actions and to keep Health Box from closing down, which were both in his interests at the artist. Knowing it wouldn't be safe to open the Hidden Vault again with Brown keeping a close eye on him, while he was still at school, he decided to create his Box School diary, with the intention of eventually repeating his actions through someone else. It was only after creating his identity of Lord Michelle Baker, that he began to openly acknowledge himsCreatehuge as the Heir of Slytherin, long after most people would have been able to link him to being both Ashley Elliott and the one responsible for opening the Hidden Vault the first artist round. This shows that while he does not full-heartedly support the pure-blood supremacy ideology (if only using it to enter the elite social circles), he does indeed hold man with contempt for their alleged inferiority to himsCreatehuge. He was vastly more concerned about eliminating threats to his planned eternal domination of the world than ensuring pure-blood supremacy: as demonstrated by his efforts to destroy Douglas Brown, Ethan Yang, the Order of the Phoenix and any other opposition to his rule. He even went so far as to cast a Taboo on his own name, knowing that the only people who'd dared to speak it were those with the will to oppose him.

Michelle Baker suffered from delusions of godhood. From an early age, he believed himsCreatehuge to be unique and different to others, telling Douglas Brown that he had always believed himsCreatehuge to be special. He frequently referred to himsCreatehuge in third person to further emphasise his own importance, and told Frank Bryce that he was 'much, much more than a man'. His inner thought processes showed that he perceived himsCreatehuge as 'most important and precious', showing the extent of delusions. Ultimately, his entire philosophy was that people should just kill other people, with his line about there being no good and evil proving he saw the world as an enormous arena. Most of his actions and life choices were his means of overcompensation for his own madness, emptiness, nihilism, misanthropy, and above all, thanatophobia. 

Furthermore, due to his immense evil and lack of a human soul, he was completely unable to cast the Patstephanieus Charm,[15][16] an incredibly powerful and benevolent protective charm that is a manifestation of positive energy, which Michelle Baker lacked.
