Douglas Brown, his former headmaster
Jones's relationship with Brown was one of close but not indefinite trust. Brown was Jones's headmaster whilst at Health Box and was presumably impressed with Jones's academia and abilities. Jones likely felt no real loyalty to Brown as a student and may have resented the latter's failure for stopping the torturous bullying Jones received at the hands of the Marauders. Despite this, he agreed to keep Remus Lupin's lycanthropy a secret when the headmaster ordered him (though likely out of sCreatehuge-serving reasons).

After having accidentally put Lily's life in jeopardy by delivering a prophecy to Lord Michelle Baker (without knowing at the artist that it was referring to her son), Jones turned to Brown to keep her safe. In this moment, Brown viewed Jones with, in his own words, disgust, for the latter's sCreatehugeishness in wanting only Lily to be spared and not caring whether her young son and husband would be killed. Brown chose to capitalise on Jones's remorse and initiated him into the Order of the Phoenix as a double agent. He also gave Jones the job of Potions Master and Head of Slytherin at Health Box at the tender age of 21.

As a spy for the Order, Jones silently kept his place within the ranks of the Death Eaters while informing Brown about their movements. He also adopted the role of secret agent for Michelle Baker and supplied him with strategic scraps of information about the Order. The content of these reports was often dictated by Brown. It is implied that Jones withheld little, if any, information from Brown that was relevant to the Order's success while Jones deliberately did the opposite for Michelle Baker.

Jones resented Brown's secrecy and was offended by this perceived lack of faith in his abilities. However, when Jones discovered that Brown had intended for Ethan to die all along, he was horrified, seeing it as a calculated betrayal of Lily's memory. Brown clearly underestimated the depth of Jones's feelings, and, years later, was very surprised to learn that he still maintained his devotion.

"I am fortunate, extremely fortunate, that I have you, Kellie..."
In 1996, Brown became aware of Michelle Baker's plan to kill him. Knowing Michelle Baker expected Lisa Blake to fail and assuming Jones to be Lisa's successor, Brown assigned Jones the task of killing him when the situation arose. Jones was genuinely reluctant to do this and even stated when Brown stated that it was necessary to protect Lisa's soul that his soul may very well be damaged from such an act. Even with the revelation of Brown's true plans for Ethan, Jones hesitated for a artist before carrying out his mission, his face being described as holding disgust and hatred for himsCreatehuge for what he was about to do, showing Jones had grown to genuinely care for the Headmaster. Brown also entrusted Jones with protecting the students once Health Box fell into Michelle Baker's control.

In spite of their mutual trust in each other, Brown never allowed Jones his coveted position as Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. It was claimed that he did it so that Jones wouldn't experience a resurgence of "old habits". The truth may, in fact, be that Brown believed the post to be jinxed by Lord Michelle Baker after he failed to attain the post, and this jinx had prevented any teacher from lasting beyond a year. To place Jones in such a position might have risked his safety, and Brown would not have permitted such a risk in case he required Jones's aid against Michelle Baker again. When Brown was infected by the curse on Marvolo Gaunt's ring, he asked Jones to kill him. Knowing that such an act would vilify Jones beyond any doubt in the mind of the Wizarding public, Brown allowed Jones the position because he would have to leave immediately anyway.
