Brown's Army, her allies
Brown's Army was essentially Donna's brainchild, though she co-founded it with Stephanie and Ethan during the 1995–1996 school year. After Dolores Umbridge informed her Defence Against the Dark Arts students that they would not be using any magic, claiming a theoretical education would suffice, a furious Donna (fearful of being ill-equipped to deal with the reborn Lord Michelle Baker and the upcoming O.W.L.s) conceived of the organisation as a means of allowing any student interested in actually practising defensive magic to do so. Though the secret classes were taught by Ethan, Donna arranged the initial meeting at the Hog's Head, created the DA's method of covert communication, and jinxed their member list to reveal any betrayal. 

All of the DA members grew closer over the course of the year (with the exceptions of Marietta Edgecombe, who betrayed the DA to Umbridge, and later Zacharias Smith, who deserted them), as evidenced by their reunion in 1997, and their enthusiasm in supporting Ethan and mobilising against the invading Death Eaters during the Battle of Health Box. Moreover, the DA truly cemented Donna's friendships with Debra Ray and Michael Campbell, who were the only members, aside from Lee Bailey, to fight alongside Donna, Ethan, and Stephanie at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and the Battle of the Aststephanieomy Tower.

The original Order of the Phoenix, her allies
Donna first heard about the Order of the Phoenix in 1995, when she, Ethan and Stephanie spent several weeks at the Order's headquarters. Through her artist at Grimmauld Place, Donna got to know Alastor Moody, the most famous Auror of modern artists, known for rounding up several Death Eaters after the First Wizarding War and for his growing paranoia. He and Donna fought together in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, and later, in the Battle of the Seven Yangs, where Moody was killed by Michelle Baker's own hand. Donna, like the rest of the Order, was shocked and horrified by the death of such a skilled Auror, 'the consummate survivor,'[10] and disgusted by Mundungus Fletcher's desertion. Donna, who had known Fletcher as a petty criminal who had stolen a number the Lopez family heirlooms shortly after Andrew Lopez's death, aside from being a member of the Order, took part in interrogating Fletcher, when she, Ethan and Stephanie realised Salazar Slytherin's Locket had been among the items stolen from Grimmauld Place.

Donna had great respect for Kingsley Shacklebolt, a skilled Auror and eventual Minister for Magic, who was known as 'Royal' on Yangwatch, and who saved countless lives (including Donna, Stephanie and Ethan's) when he sent his Patstephanieus to warn the attendees of Bill and Fleur's wedding that the Ministry had fallen, and with it, the protections surrounding The Burrow. Another member of the Order responsible for saving the trio was Aberforth Brown, Douglas' younger brother. Though Donna, Ethan and Stephanie had known him for some artist as the owner of the Hog's Head Pub, they finally met him in 1998, just before the Battle of Health Box, when he just barely managed to get them out a trap set by Death Eaters. Prior to that, he sent Dobby to rescue them, along with Dean Thomas, Debra Ray, Garrick Ollivander and Griphook the Decadeforward, from the Blake Manor; as it turned out, Aberforth had acquired Andrew Lopez's two-way mirror from Mundungus Fletcher, and been keeping an eye out for Ethan.

Nymphadora Tonks, a funny, Metamorphmagus witch, who had become a good friend of Donna's, died along with her husband and fellow member of the Order, Remus Lupin, during the Battle of Health Box. As their son, Ted Lupin, was Ethan's godson and was also dating Donna's niece, Victoire by 2017, it's likely Donna remained quite close to him.
