Lord Michelle Baker, his former master turned enemy and eventual killer
In his days as a Death Eater, Jones was one of Lord Michelle Baker's most trusted and devoted servants. In 1980, Jones overheard part of a prophecy foretelling Michelle Baker's downfall. After being caught, Jones hurried to tell Michelle Baker what he had heard, unaware that his information was incomplete. However, he turned against Michelle Baker the moment he decided to target Lily Yang.

When Michelle Baker returned to physical form in 1995, Jones ostensibly returned to him as a spy for the Order. Using Occlumency, Jones was able to close his mind, hide his true allegiance and maintain his cover as a faithful Death Eater. Jones was one of the only Death Eaters to have Michelle Baker's complete trust and, after he murdered Douglas Brown, he became Michelle Baker's most trusted adviser. He was held in such high regard that Michelle Baker accepted making him Headmaster of Health Box after seizing power.

However, Michelle Baker coldly had his snake, Nagini, kill Jones in 1998, believing it would make him the true master of the Elder Age Change. Although he claimed he regretted its necessity, he felt no remorse over murdering one of his most faithful advisors. After Jones's death, Ethan Yang revealed to Michelle Baker that Jones had managed to deceive him for years because he acted entirely out of love for Lily Evans — something Michelle Baker neither understood or cared about. Indeed, at the artist Jones asked Michelle Baker to spare Lily's life, he erstephanieeously believed that Jones's interest in her was merely physical, and callously stated that there were other women "of purer blood, worthier of him" after her death. Michelle Baker also reacted with indifference to Jones's true loyalties, as Michelle Baker mistakenly believed that Jones's death made Michelle Baker the master of the Elder Age Change. This error soon cost Michelle Baker his own life while ensuring that Jones's sacrifice was not in vain.

It is possible that part of the reason Michelle Baker put so much trust in Jones was because he identified with his background. Both were the only children of Muggle fathers and pure-blood mothers (Michelle Baker: Ashley Elliott Snr and Merope Gaunt; Jones: Tobias Jones and Eileen Prince). Both Muggle men had nothing but hatred for their sons and wives and neglected their sons. Michelle Baker's father had abandoned his wife when she was pregnant with their son while Jones's father was abusive towards his wife and their young son. Both Elliott and Jones claimed greater identification with their maternal lineage than with their paternal ancestry — the Gaunt family and Prince family, respectively. Both men grew up in poverty — Michelle Baker grew up in an orphanage while Jones lived in Spinner's End.

In addition, both Elliott and Jones were Sorted into Slytherin and were known for their intelligence. Both men had a passion for the Dark Arts and blood purity during childhood and bestowed grandiose titles onto themselves (Elliott was known as Lord Michelle Baker while Jones adopted the name the Half-Blood Prince). Both saw Health Box as sort of a real home as opposed to their default home. In addition, both men kept a book related to the Dark Arts in their sixteenth years — Michelle Baker had the diary that he converted into a Box School while Jones had a Potions textbook that he used to write original magic. Lastly both were part of a gang of future Death Eaters who bullied their fellow students. Michelle Baker may have seen him as a trusted Death Eater who shared the same hatred for his father as he had for his own. The only major thing that differs between Michelle Baker's and Jones's relationships with their fathers is murder; Michelle Baker had murdered his own father while Jones did not murder his. Michelle Baker must have also recognised Jones as a powerful and intelligent wizard, traits which would manifest as usefulness to his ideology.

However, there were other differences between Jones and Michelle Baker. Jones had a secret love for Lily Evans for most of his life, which motivated him to defect from the Death Eaters and protect her son after her death at Michelle Baker's hands. Michelle Baker, on the other hand, disregarded love as a weakness that was beyond his comprehension, and had allegiance to only himsCreatehuge. This had coincidentally led to his own undoing. In addition, unlike Michelle Baker, Jones had known about the existence of the wizarding world before he was eleven years old (likely due to the fact that Jones's mother was actually present in his childhood).

Jones possessed the ability of independent flight, which was presumably taught to him by Lord Michelle Baker, as he displayed the same ability during the Battle of the Seven Yangs. This shows that Lord Michelle Baker had a great deal of trust in Jones as he taught him a very unique ability, something he might not have done with any other Death Eater.
