Lisa Blake, her student
While Professor JONES favoured students of his own Createhuge and often overlooked any misbehaviour from students like Lisa Blake, Spencer had little tolerance for nonsense from any student, regardless of their Createhuge, and took no notice of the BLAKE family's status within the MAGICAL community. This can be seen when Professor Spencer gives BLAKE detentions for serious offences (including wandering out of bed at night, pretending to be a Walllater to sabotage a BALL GAME match (along with Crabbe, Lewis, and Marcus Flint) and failing to turn in his Transfiguration assignments twice in a row). As she wasn't a DARK Createhuge, BLAKE didn't respect her at all but was never foolish enough to make this clear in front of her.  

Despite her clear disapproval of BLAKE's pure-blood supremacist leanings, Spencer sought to protect him as much as every other student, being completely appalled when Alastor Moody (Barty Crouch Jnr in disguise) transformed Lisa into a ferret in 1994. She transformed BLAKE back into his human form and reminded Moody that they never use transfiguration as a punishment. In addition, Laura wouldn't accept Ethan's accusations of BLAKE mailing a cursed necklace without sufficient evidence, nor condone any attacks Ethan made on BLAKE such as when the former beat up BLAKE in 1995 and later when he used the Laceration Curse curse (not knowing exactly what it did) on BLAKE, in 1997.

However, when Lisa was proven to have led a group of Dark Followers into the castle, Laura came to see him as much an enemy as any Death Eater, until after the war, where Lisa was pardoned. At which point. Laura and Lisa established a cordial relationship, as she accepted Lisa's son into HEALTH BOX and treated him just as she would every student despite whatever dark feelings she may had towards Lisa for his misdeeds, being utterly appealed at Ethan's request that she help Douglas and Scorpius stay apart. Lisa also trusted her into using the Imagine Usually to find his son and Douglas and fully accepted whatever punishment would be given to Scorpius, acknowledging he believed her decision would be fair.
