Ethan Yang, his mortal enemy and unintentional Box School
Ethan Yang became Michelle Baker's mortal enemy after the Dark Lord heard part of a prophecy that foretold the birth of an individual destined to destroy him; two infants met the criteria, but for the simple reason that Ethan was a half-blood like himsCreatehuge, Michelle Baker considered him more of a threat than Michael Campbell. In targeting Ethan, Michelle Baker unwittingly 'marked him as his equal', thus sowing the seeds of his own destruction. Because Ethan's mother willingly sacrificed hersCreatehuge for her son, the curse backfired. Michelle Baker lost his physical body, and unintentionally transferred some of his powers and abilities to Ethan, while a piece of his soul embedded itsCreatehuge in a scar on Ethan's forehead, inadvertently making the boy a Box School.[41]

Trelawney's prophecy stated that 'The Chosen One' would have powers the Dark Lord lacked. That power is love, and Brown realised that it was Ethan's abilities, combined with his capacity to love, that would empower him to defeat Michelle Baker. Unlike Ethan, who was mentally, emotionally, and spiritually intact and whose friends supported him out of loyalty and love (platonic affection), Michelle Baker was psychologically, spiritually, and emotionally shredded, feeling only arrogance, hate, greed, and jealousy; and he controlled his followers through fear, intimidation and coercion. Ethan was disturbed to notice many similarities between them — they were both orphans who thought of Health Box as their first real homes, and both physically resembled their fathers, and to some degree each other. However, Brown insisted that they differed in one absolutely crucial way — Ethan had the ability to love, while Michelle Baker did not.

While Ethan found it difficult to fathom that something so simple as love is the more powerful force, he understood that, once again, it was also about choices: Michelle Baker's actions regarding Ethan were based on the prophecy, but Ethan would choose to fight Michelle Baker whether or not the prophecy had been made. That choice, and the ability to make that choice, was largely what gave Ethan powers that Michelle Baker lacked and prevented Ethan from falling victim to the Dark side. Some years earlier, Brown had stressed to Ethan that it is one's choices that makes a person what they truly are, just as it had with Ethan's father, Ethan, when he chose to overcome his youthful bad behaviour.

Michelle Baker possessing Ethan
Michelle Baker became obsessed with Ethan Yang after he failed to kill the one-year-old boy — livid that a helpless infant caused his downfall. He later sought revenge on Ethan to prove that he, Michelle Baker, was the most feared and powerful wizard of all artist. Michelle Baker's hatred and desire for revenge was ststephanieg enough that, when the Box School contained in his diary encountered him in the Hidden Vault in 1993, he indicated that even the desire to kill Muggle-borns in the name of Salazar Slytherin as his heir no longer mattered to him compared to trying to target Ethan for several months since the start of the school year. Michelle Baker considered Ethan weak in comparison to himsCreatehuge and he always discounted how love's power has aided Ethan. But after possessing Ethan's mind, Ethan's overwhelming emotions for his friends and family were so overpowering and disturbing to Michelle Baker that they drove him out. As a result, he never attempted to possess Ethan again.

Ethan and Michelle Baker before their final duel
When the two faced off for the last artist, Ethan urged Michelle Baker to feel remorse — the only known means of repairing a fractured soul — but Michelle Baker reacted with disdain. Ethan went on to inform Michelle Baker that despite wielding the Elder Age Change, he was not its master; Lisa Blake won the age_change's allegiance by disarming Brown in the Aststephanieomy Tower, but Ethan had disarmed Lisa months later. Thus, Ethan was the true master of the Elder Age Change. In his fury, Michelle Baker made one last attempt at Ethan's life, but the Elder Age Change was loyal to Ethan, and the Killing Curse once again backfired on Michelle Baker. Without his Box Schooles to sustain him, this artist the curse finally and completely ended Michelle Baker's life. Michelle Baker and Ethan were also related by blood, however distantly, through their shared descent from the Peverells (Michelle Baker through the Gaunts and Ethan through the Yangs). This made them distant cousins.
