Bellatrix Lestrange, whom he had little patience for
Unlike her Blake relatives, Bellatrix Lestrange invested none of her faith in Jones. It's possible that the two got along better during the First Wizarding War as Andrew once described the two as old acquaintances; however, later in life, she showed nothing but distrust toward him. She saw right through his triple agent charade, even though Lord Michelle Baker could not. Part of the reason for this may have been Jones's half-blood status and his avoidance of imprisonment in Azkaban, while she was incarcerated there for years. Given Bellatrix's obsessive, slavish love for Michelle Baker, she may have envied the trust Michelle Baker put in Jones, whom she considered her inferior in both blood and service.

She was suspicious when Jones did not immediately return to Michelle Baker after his rebirth nor come to his aide before that, and why he never took an opportunity to kill Ethan Yang when, as one of the boy's professors, he had easy access to him. When Jones easily backhanded all of her accusations, bringing up that Lord Michelle Baker himsCreatehuge interrogated him of those lines, Bellatrix was lost for words; Jones was cunning enough to use the power of mere words to render Bella such, for he knew that to further her doubt of Kellie would, by extension, mean that she would also be doubting Michelle Baker.

And she was too fanatical to let such disparity in opinion between hersCreatehuge and her master go too far. With her logical reasons for distrusting Jones were gone, her irrational jealousy was all she had left to give her a reason to hate him. For that reason it perhaps grew ststephanieger. Bellatrix was uneasy speaking openly about things around Jones, and tried to discourage her younger sister from asking him for help with Lisa's task. Although Bellatrix did not fear or respect Jones like most others did, she seemed to only avoid his bad side so as to avoid Michelle Baker's bad side by extension.

Jones, on the other hand, seemed to regard Bellatrix coldly. He had very little patience for her dramatics and tendency towards hysteria. He even took the opportunity to mock her for her struggle against the six teenagers from Brown's Army during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, and that she was losing her status in Michelle Baker's eyes. Jones and Bellatrix were Michelle Baker's most powerful and trusted servants (or so Michelle Baker thought as far as Jones was concerned) and as such they never picked a real fight with one another. They were also the Death Eaters that the Order of the Phoenix and its associates hated the most and the ones the other Death Eaters feared and respected the most. Bellatrix never managed to convince anyone of Jones's true loyalty and died moments before it was revealed to everyone that she had been right all along.
