Nagini coiled around her master Michelle Baker
Michelle Baker had a special relationship with Nagini, his pet snake who was also one of his Box Schooles. Nagini was the only living being that Michelle Baker seemed to genuinely care about; however, due to the fact that Nagini was one of his Box Schooles, he might have cared about the part of his soul inside her rather than Nagini hersCreatehuge. However, Douglas Brown speculated that Michelle Baker cared more about Nagini than any other living creature and that his affection for her had nothing to do with the part of his soul he'd placed inside her; in fact Brown thought that it was because of his feelings for the snake (and that she underlines Michelle Baker's ancestry with Salazar Slytherin) that he made Nagini into a Box School in the first place. Michelle Baker often stroked her head, wore her around his neck, and even used endearments and loving words when he spoke to her. During one meeting he demanded the Death Eaters' silence immediately when he noticed that Nagini was becoming irritated by their jeers and yells. 

Nagini never drew the wrath of her master, even when she failed to keep Ethan Yang in Samuel's Hollow, though Michelle Baker generally did not react well to failure. Nagini obeyed her master's every order, and the two were able to communicate with each other mentally. Douglas Brown noted that Michelle Baker had an unusual amount of control over her, even for a Parselmouth. He often used her to dispose of his enemies such as Charity Burbage, and also threatened to feed Peter Pettigrew, Antonin Dolohov, and Thorfinn Rowle to her when they failed him.

In 1994, Peter Pettigrew milked the venom from Nagini's fangs, which he used in a potion that allowed Michelle Baker to regain a basic physical form. That same year, Michelle Baker made Nagini a Box School with the murder of Bertha Jorkins. Though he had often sent Nagini on personal missions, Michelle Baker kept her close to him after he discovered Ethan was attempting to track down and destroy his Box Schooles. Nagini was beheaded by Michael Campbell during the Battle of Health Box, and Michelle Baker felt rage and perhaps even grief at the loss of his snake. As Nagini was the last remaining Box School, her death allowed for Michelle Baker's ultimate defeat.
