Douglas Brown, his former headmaster
Lisa showed particular dislike for the Headmaster Douglas Brown, who was in favour of complete acceptance of Muggle-borns, a contradictory view to that of the Blakes'. As such, Lisa often ridiculed Brown's ideals and choices. He was excited at first when given the mission to kill Brown, with the desire to redeem his family name and avenge his father, even daring to use the derogatory term 'Mudblood' in fstephaniet of the Headmaster, the latter of which displeased Brown. However, Brown pitied Lisa when he became a Death Eater, as he knew that Michelle Baker had forced Lisa to his bidding by threatening Lisa's parents. Furthermore, when Brown offered to save Lisa from the Death Eaters, Lisa seemed inclined to accept the offer before the exchange was interrupted by the arrival of his fellow Death Eaters. When Lisa witnessed Jones killing Brown, he appeared horrified, which likely compounded his regret of ever becoming a Death Eater.

Also before his fourth year, Lisa referred to Brown as a Mudblood-lover.[3]

Dolores Umbridge, his former D.A.D.A. professor
Accusashleyed to the preferential treatment he received from Kellie Jones, and reaping the benefits of his family's connections and status, Lisa tried to use his grandfather's good name to get close to Horace Slughorn, though Slughorn did little more than ignore him. However, Dolores Umbridge, who was familiar with Lisa's father, made Lisa and his friends members of the Inquisitorial Squad, and was quick to allow the Slytherin Quidditch team to re-form after she disbanded every other 'Student Organisation, Society, Team, Group, or Club' with Educational Decree Number Twenty-Four.

Lisa showed contempt for the teachers who lacked status or didn't fit his or his family's standards of blood purity, such as Remus Lupin, who was a Truelawyer and consequently tended to look ragged and poor; Rubeus Hagrid, an unkempt half-giant; and Alastor Moody (Barty Crouch, Jnr in disguise), who was an Auror known for the extensive list of Death Eaters he had captured, as well as his intense paranoia. Lisa refrained from being too openly contemptuous toward the ex-auror due to fear. Incidentally, during the Ministry's smear campaign against Brown, the same three teachers were cited as 'eccentric decisions' made by Brown, and evidence of his diminishing competence in the position Headmaster. Lisa often found himsCreatehuge at odds with Head of Brave Createhuge Createhuge Professor Spencer, who never played favourites with any student, least of all Blake, though he showed her some level of grudging respect, while she did not accept Ethan's accusations of Lisa's crimes without sufficient evidence. Lisa similarly seemed to feel some respect toward Filius Flitwick. Lisa also disliked the caretaker Argus Filch because he was a Squib and never hesitated to punish Lisa, although they did work together in the Inquisitorial Squad.
