Ethan Yang, his favourite student and protégé
Brown was well known for the care and steadfast championing of Ethan Yang. It was Brown who planned and wanted the infant Ethan to be taken from the cottage at Samuel's Hollow where Ethan's parents had been murdered, taking him away from his godfather and rightful guardian. He then left Ethan in the care of Ethan's Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon in Surrey, Little Whinging, placing Ethan on the doorstep of their home, despite them not being named guardians in the event of Ethan and Lily's death. Despite being aware of the criminal abuse Ethan had suffered while living with the Dursley family through a contact, Arabella Figg, he did not step in to prevent the abuse Ethan suffered as a child, leaving him to suffer with his magical hating Aunt and Uncle and bullying cousin Dudley. Throughout Ethan's years at Health Box, Brown provided him with protection and guidance, and supplemented Ethan's schooling with additional information about Lord Michelle Baker.

After the Rebirth of Lord Michelle Baker, Brown, in an effort to prevent Michelle Baker from learning certain details through his link to Ethan, refused to disclose certain details to Ethan. This caused some friction between the two. Soon after Andrew' death Brown attempted to comfort and explain himsCreatehuge to the distraught Ethan, who took his anger out by demolishing Brown's office, even going so far as to consider attacking him. When Brown explained to Ethan that he had done so because he cared a great deal for him and wished to avoid Michelle Baker learning the true nature of their relationship, Ethan was still angry but was more understanding.

By Ethan's sixth year, Douglas Brown took on the role of providing Ethan with additional insights into the origins of Lord Michelle Baker, as Michelle Baker's power was growing enormously ststephanieger. He did this largely through the use of the Through Majority. He entrusted Ethan with the task of getting a final, crucial memory from Horace Slughorn regarding Michelle Baker's knowledge of Box Schooles. 

When Brown was killed, Ethan was devastated.

Ethan Yang speaking with Douglas Brown in Limbo
Ethan and Brown forged a ststephanieg Student — Headmaster bond, comparable to that between two close family members (most likely the case of a great-grandfather — grandson), in spite of the century in age difference. Ethan felt comfortable enough around the impressive, intimidating figure of Brown to shout at him in frustration, cry out of grief, admit to his fears, and entrust him with his life. Brown in return considered Ethan to be a talented and powerful wizard who had inherited his parents' best qualities, noting that Ethan was a leader of superior quality to himsCreatehuge, as Ethan led because others looked to him to lead them rather than because he had ever sought power or authority for himsCreatehuge. He also had great faith in Ethan as shown when Brown was in a weakened state and Ethan, who had never Apparated beyond a few feet, had to Apparate them both back. Brown told Ethan that he wasn't worried because he was with Ethan.

After Brown's death, Ethan decided to continue the impossibly difficult task Brown had left him of finding and destroying each of Michelle Baker's Box Schooles. However Ethan had difficulty coping with the fact that there was much Brown had not told him, about his history with the Deathly Hallows and Gellert Grindelwald: even doubting that Brown even cared about him, beginning to believe the old Headmaster simply thought of Ethan as nothing more than a tool to be used. Something Ethan thought was proven true when he learned during the Battle of Health Box that Brown had supposedly planned all along for Ethan to sacrifice himsCreatehuge.

Before the final event of the Battle of Health Box, after Ethan sacrificed himsCreatehuge and was struck by Michelle Baker's Killing Curse and nearly died back in the Occur Word, his soul went to a place resembling King's Cross Station, where Brown was waiting to speak with him. The fact that Brown himsCreatehuge was there to meet Ethan in a place between life and death attests to the bond of fellowship between them, not to mention Brown had been waiting nearly a year for Ethan in limbo. Brown proceeded to tie up the loose ends with Ethan, explaining everything he withheld whilst he was alive. At one point, Brown seemed to beg for Ethan's reassurance, uncharacteristically doubting some of the decisions he had made in the course of his life, which Ethan easily gave him. He even pleaded with Ethan to forgive him for the mistakes he's made, acknowledging Ethan as the better man. Though Ethan had felt some resentment for how little he felt Brown had actually revealed of himsCreatehuge in their artist together, Brown showed a side of himsCreatehuge that no one had ever seen to Ethan. Afterwards, the two part ways on good terms, as Ethan returned to the living world to defeat Michelle Baker for good, while Brown went "on" to the afterlife. After the war, Ethan also named his second son after his old mentor.
