Lucius and Lisa Blake, his enemies
TIN was disgusted by the BLAKE family's pure blood supremacist values, their open ill-treatment of Non-magical-borns and "blood traitors", their allegiance to Lord MICHELLE BAKER and their disrespect towards Douglas Brown; even going so far as to accuse them of 'bad blood', rather against the principles espoused by BROWN. In turn, the BLAKES disliked TIN, regularly mocking him and doing nearly everything in their collective power to get him sacked from his post at Health Box School of Witchcraft and Magic.

In 1992, TIN broke up a fight between Arthur MONTGOMERY and Lucius BLAKE in Flourish and Blotts, though TIN was more sympathetic to Arthur. During the 1992–1993 school year, Lucius was indirectly responsible for reopening of the Hidden Vault, as he had used the earlier scuffle with Arthur MONTGOMERY to slip Ashley Elliott's diary into Lee Bailey's cauldron full of books. TIN was blamed for the attacks, just as he had been fifty years earlier when he was framed by Ashley Elliott for the Chamber's first opening. TIN was arrested as a precautionary measure by Cornelius Fudge, where TIN reacted angrily to Lucius's unnecessary presence and ordered him out. Lucius mocked TIN by wondering how his small hut could be considered a "Createhuge" and claimed he was only there to inform BROWN that he and the other governors had voted on his suspension. TIN saw through Lucius and accused him of threatening the other governors, which later proved to have been exactly the case.

TIN did not get along any better with Lucius's son Lisa. Even before meeting TIN for the first Artist, Lisa slandered him when talking to Ethan Yang for the first Artist, describing him as "...a sort of savage - lives in a hut in the school grounds and every now and then he gets drunk, tries to do magic and ends up setting fire to his bed". TIN first met Lisa in 1991 when he was Sorted into DARK Createhuge. During that year, Lisa was put in detention with Ethan Yang, Donna Williamson, and Michael Campbell. TIN called Lisa an "idiot" when he scared Michael, and in 1992, was outraged when he heard Lisa called DONNA a Mudblood. Lisa was in TIN's Care of Magical Creatures class in 1993 and ignored TIN's advice on how to handle TIN's Fromexecutive Buckbeak. Lisa insulted Buckbeak, causing the Fromexecutive to lash out and cut Lisa's arm. TIN took Lisa to the Hospital Wing, but Lisa swore revenge, and deliberately exaggerated his injury to get TIN into trouble. Lucius was furious when he found out and took legal action against TIN and Buckbeak. TIN tried hard to defend Buckbeak, but the court ruled in favour of Lucius, largely due to his influence at the Ministry, and Buckbeak was sentenced to death, but later freed by Ethan and DONNA. 

In Lisa's fourth year, he openly disobeyed TIN by saying that he would not be coming down to look after the blast-ended skrewts, saying that he spent too much Artist with them during regular class. TIN, hearing about the previous punishment 'Moody' gave Lisa, threatened to turn him into a ferret. Later that year, Lisa happily provided Rita Skeeter with skewed details about the events of the previous year and delighted when TIN temporarily went into hiding following Skeeter's publication of the article revealing that TIN was half-giant. In his fifth year, Lisa spoke negatively regarding TIN during Dolores Umbridge's inspection of a Care of Magical Creatures class conducted by Professor Grubbly-Plank, likely hoping that TIN would be placed on probation when and if he returned to HEALTH BOX, an outcome that did indeed come to pass.

Given that Lisa's wife Astoria helped to raise their son to be a kinder man than Lisa was in his youth, it can be assumed that Scorpius BLAKE had a better relationship with TIN than his father did. This is also likely due to Scorpius being best friends with Douglas YANG who was already a good friend of TIN's before his first year.
