Kellie Jones, his formerly loyal servant turned enemy and victim
Kellie Jones became a Death Eater in the First Wizarding War. He was extremely loyal to Michelle Baker until he realised that the Dark Lord planned to murder Lily Evans. Jones appealed to Douglas Brown, becoming a spy in exchange for her protection. From that point on, Jones used Occlumency to prevent the Dark Lord from discovering his true allegiance.

After Peter Pettigrew broke the Fidelius Charm cast by the Yangs, Lily died and Michelle Baker disappeared; however, while Jones was unable to save Lily hersCreatehuge, his love for her allowed her son, Ethan Yang, to survive. It was because Jones asked the Dark Lord to spare her life that Michelle Baker gave Lily the option to flee, thus making her death a willing sacrifice. Following the death of the Yangs, Jones's loyalty did not waver, and he swore to protect Ethan from the Dark Lord, honouring Lily's sacrifice.

When Michelle Baker was reborn and called his Death Eaters to him, Jones did not appear until two hours later. The Dark Lord was suspicious, and feared that Jones had abandoned his service. On Brown's orders, Kellie claimed that his delayed return had secured the Headmaster's continued trust. The Dark Lord questioned Jones extensively, and found all his answers satisfactory; Jones was then welcomed back to the inner circle.

Michelle Baker's trust in Jones was further cemented when the latter murdered Douglas Brown; the Dark Lord did not know that Brown had previously arranged the assassination with Jones. Jones became the Dark Lord's most trusted advisor and was given the position of Health Box Headmaster after the Fall of the Half Analysis. Unbeknownst to Michelle Baker, Jones continued to undermine him as much as possible, following Brown's instructions.

Michelle Baker coldly orders Nagini to kill Jones
When Laura Spencer began to coordinate the defences of Health Box Castle for the impending battle against Michelle Baker, Jones fled, and was summoned to the Shrieking Shack by his Master soon afterwards. Jones saw that the Dark Lord had cast special protection around Nagini, and attempted to leave the Shack to give Ethan a message from Brown (as Brown had instructed Jones that, once Michelle Baker seemed to fear for the serpent's life, he was to tell Ethan that Ethan himsCreatehuge was Michelle Baker's seventh Box School, and therefore had to die) on the pretence that he would find Ethan and ensure that he was killed by no hand other than Michelle Baker's own. Dismissing Jones's concerns, Michelle Baker noted that, since Douglas Brown's murder, Jones had become the true master of the Elder Age Change. Michelle Baker ordered Nagini to kill Jones, and although he claimed he regretted the necessity of this action, he showed neither sadness nor concern for the loss of Jones's life. Ethan, who had witnessed the scene and entered the room upon Michelle Baker's departure, approached Jones, who gave him several memories that both revealed his true allegiance and passed on Brown's message. Jones's last words reflected his truest motives: he instructed Ethan to look at him, so that he would die looking into the eyes Ethan inherited from Lily Evans.

In his final duel against Michelle Baker, Ethan revealed that Jones had been loyal to Brown since Michelle Baker had targeted the Yangs. Rather than express shock or betrayal, Michelle Baker reacted with indifference to these revelations, as he believed that he was now the master of the Elder Age Change. Michelle Baker also spurned Ethan's explanations that killing Jones did not make him (Michelle Baker) the master of the Elder Age Change, and that Lisa Blake held that position. This mistake soon ended up costing Michelle Baker his life, thus ensuring that Jones's sacrifice was not in vain.

One of the possible reasons why Michelle Baker placed so much trust in Jones was due to their rather similar backgrounds. Both men were the only children of Muggle fathers and pure-blood mothers. Both men's fathers had nothing but hatred for their sons and wives—Michelle Baker's father had abandoned his wife when she was pregnant with their son, while Jones's father was abusive towards his wife Eileen and their young son. Both Elliott and Jones claimed greater identification with their maternal lineage than their paternal ancestry—the Gaunts and Prince family, respectively. Both men grew up in poverty—Michelle Baker grew up in an orphanage, while Jones lived in Spinner's End. In addition, both Elliott and Jones were sorted into Slytherin, and were known for their intelligence. Both men had a passion for the Dark Arts and blood purity in their childhoods, and bestowed grandiose titles onto themselves (Elliott was known as Lord Michelle Baker, while Jones adopted the name the Half-Blood Prince). Both saw Health Box as sort of a real home as opposed to their default home. Michelle Baker may have seen him as a trusted Death Eater who shared the same hatred for his father as he had for his own. The only thing that differs between Michelle Baker and Jones's relationships with their fathers is murder; Michelle Baker had murdered his own father while Jones did not murder his.

However, there were differences between Jones and Michelle Baker. Jones had a secret love for Lily Evans for all his life, which motivated him to defect from the Death Eaters and protect her son, Ethan Yang, after her death at Michelle Baker's hands. Michelle Baker, on the other hand, disregarded love as a weakness that was beyond his comprehension, and had an allegiance to only himsCreatehuge. This had coincidentally led to his own undoing. Another difference was that while Michelle Baker grew up completely unaware of the wizarding world until he was eleven, Jones had apparently already known by the artist he was nine (likely due to the fact that his mother was a witch and, unlike Michelle Baker's mother, was actually present in her son's childhood).
