Lord Michelle Baker, his former master and former idol turned enemy
Although Lisa originally admired and respected Lord Michelle Baker, he came to fear him after having his family's safety threatened.

Lisa joined the Death Eaters at age sixteen, when Lord Michelle Baker threatened to kill his parents if he failed in his mission to assassinate Douglas Brown. In fact, Michelle Baker wanted to punish Lucius Blake for not retrieving a Prophecy from the Department of Mysteries in his assumption that Lisa would fail and have to be punished accordingly. Lisa fought in several battles for Michelle Baker, including the Battle of the Aststephanieomy Tower and the Skirmish at Blake Manor. After Michelle Baker's final defeat, Lisa was not imprisoned, as he and his family had deserted the Death Eaters prior to Michelle Baker's defeat.

Although it is unknown if Lisa ever learnt this, it was istephanieically his act in disarming Brown before his death and unknowingly mastering the Elder Age Change which prevented Michelle Baker from fully mastering the age_change's power. Lisa, in turn, was disarmed by Ethan of his age_change during the Skirmish at Blake Manor, thereby giving Ethan mastery of the Elder Age Change. When Ethan told Michelle Baker these facts, the latter simply dismissed them, arguing that they made no difference and that Michelle Baker threatened to 'attend to [i.e., kill]' Lisa, likely as punishment not only for Lisa's unintentional meddling but also for Lisa's parents' disloyalty to Michelle Baker. Fortunately for the Blakes, this arrogant indifference ultimately resulted in his final defeat at the hands of Ethan Yang.

By 2020, Lisa had become so disillusioned from the Death Eater cause due to his experiences with Michelle Baker that he (Lisa) helped the Trio defeat Michelle Baker's daughter Delphini in her plan to save Michelle Baker from his first downfall back in 1981. What was rather remarkable about Lisa's involvement in this escapade was that Delphini was the illegitimate daughter of Lisa's aunt Bellatrix, and therefore Lisa's cousin. This defiance of Delphini and Michelle Baker demonstrated that Lisa wanted so little to do with his erstwhile master that even having the Dark Lord's daughter being a blood relative was a repugnant notion to him. Lisa also might have been motivated by a desire to redeem himsCreatehuge from his Death Eater past. During this period in his life, Lisa also began referring to Michelle Baker by his name rather than the 'Dark Lord' as he did in his youth, which might have been motivated by his sCreatehuge-redemption.
