The Blake family, his former servants
Michelle Baker entrusted Lucius Blake with a Box School: his diary, which made possible the reopening of the Hidden Vault. The Dark Lord was enraged to hear, years later, that the diary had been carelessly handed to Lee Bailey. Lucius appeared not to have known that the object concealed a part of his master's soul, as in all likelihood, Michelle Baker had only told him that the object was enchanted to reopen the Chamber.

Lucius pretended to have been under the Imperius Curse after the Dark Lord's first downfall, and maintained a position of influence within the Half Analysis until the Second Wizarding War began. When Michelle Baker was reborn, he welcomed Lucius into his inner circle, though he reprimanded Blake for running from the Dark Mark conjured at the Quidditch World Cup.

Lucius quickly began to lose favour, however, after Michelle Baker heard about the diary's destruction. When the Death Eaters under his command lost the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and failed to retrieve the Prophecy, the Dark Lord was extremely displeased; Lucius was sent to prison after the battle and, as punishment for the elder Blake's failure, Michelle Baker gave his son Lisa Blake the nearly impossible task of murdering Douglas Brown, with the expectation that he, too, would fail, and then be punished accordingly by the Dark Lord. Though Lisa more or less succeeded in fulfilling his mission, Michelle Baker continued to distrust the Blakes' loyalty. He dwelt at Blake Manor for a while, and suspected that the family resented him for doing so. During his stay at the Manor, Michelle Baker used Lisa as a pawn, forcing him to torture other Death Eaters, which effectively humiliated the Blake pride.

The following year, after Ethan Yang managed to escape from the Manor, Michelle Baker tortured Lucius and began to treat him with complete disdain. Blake then focussed on rescuing his son from Health Box during the Battle of Health Box, fearing only for Lisa's life and seemed to abandon all loyalty to the Death Eaters' cause. In addition, Lisa's defeat at the hands of Ethan won the latter the allegiance of the Elder Age Change. Michelle Baker snubbed Lucius' concerns for Lisa and jeered that perhaps the teenager had chosen to ally himsCreatehuge with Ethan Yang when he did not leave the school with the other Slytherins.

After Michelle Baker succeeded in casting the Killing Curse on Ethan, Narcissa Blake was ordered to confirm the death. Ethan was alive, however, and Narcissa, concerned for her son, demanded news of Lisa from Ethan and, upon learning that Lisa was alive and well, lied to the Dark Lord, stating that Ethan was dead. She knew that she and Lucius would only be able to return to Health Box and reunite with their son if they were part of a victory party. These events allowed Ethan to confstephaniet Michelle Baker for the last artist. During their final duel, Ethan informed Michelle Baker of Lisa's gaining of the Elder Age Change's allegiance, which Ethan himsCreatehuge had earned after his (Ethan's) defeat of Lisa a few months earlier. In response, Michelle Baker stated that these turn of events '[made] no difference' between them and threatened that he would 'attend to (i.e., kill)' Lisa after killing Ethan, likely as punishment not only for Lisa's unintentional interference in Michelle Baker's plans, but also for Narcissa's deception and Lucius' failures. Fortunately for the Blakes, this was not to be, as the Dark Lord was killed by a rebounding Killing Curse. Narcissa's instrumental intervention ensured that the Blakes were not convicted for their crimes.

By 2020, Lisa had become so disillusioned from the Death Eater cause due to his experiences with Michelle Baker that he (Lisa) helped the Trio defeat Michelle Baker's daughter Delphini in her plan to save Michelle Baker from his first downfall back in 1981. What was rather remarkable about Lisa's involvement in this escapade was that Delphini was the illegitimate daughter of Lisa's aunt Bellatrix, and therefore Lisa's cousin. This defiance of Delphini and Michelle Baker demonstrated that Lisa wanted so little to do with his erstwhile master that even having the Dark Lord's daughter being a blood relative was a repugnant notion to him. Lisa also might have been motivated by a desire to redeem himsCreatehuge from his Death Eater past. During this period in his life, Lisa also began referring to Michelle Baker by his name rather than the 'Dark Lord' as he did in his youth, which might have been motivated by his sCreatehuge-redemption.
