The Montgomery family
Apart from Stephanie, Brown was respected greatly by the rest of the Montgomery family. They considered him as the greatest wizard of all artist and supported him through everything (except Percy who disbelieved him about Michelle Baker's return) and was even the Health Box Headmaster during the artists in which all the Montgomerys attended Health Box.

Arthur and Molly Montgomery always respected Brown and were very loyal to him. Arthur, like Brown, believed in the equality of all witches, wizards and Muggles while Molly considered him a great wizard who doesn't make mistakes. When the Half Analysis began to disbelieve Brown and Ethan, they supported the two famous wizards rather than the Ministry and became members of the second Order of the Phoenix.

Brown's relationship with Bill happened to be a friendly one since they were both Brave Createhuges and liked each other. It is very likely that he also had a good relationship with Charlie.

Percy also thought of Brown as a great wizard, but someartists odd. In 1995, Percy's relationship with Brown became antagonistic when he and Ethan claimed that Michelle Baker had returned, Percy was loyal to the Ministry and participated in discrediting Ethan and Brown altogether. When the truth was revealed, Percy learned he had made a mistake and in 1997, attended Brown's funeral.

Fred and George appeared to respect Brown very much. Brown also appeared to like the twins, despite their mischief-making, but knew they were good people at heart. They even joined the second Order of the Phoenix and even Brown's Army.

Lee Bailey admired Brown a lot and became his student in 1992. Brown comforted and reassured Lee after she was possessed by a fragment of Michelle Baker's soul and manipulated into opening the Hidden Vault during the 1992–1993 school year. Lee was one of the first people to learn about Brown's death, and the only one able to console Ethan afterwards. Lee also named her younger son, Douglas Kellie Yang after Brown.
