Quirinus Quirrell, his loyal servant
Quirinus Quirrell encountered Lord MICHELLE BAKER's disembodied soul fragment in the Lopez Word of Albania, during his world travels. Originally naively trying to capture the Dark Lord's remains, Quirrell overestimated himself thinking he could subjugate MICHELLE BAKER and learn powerful magic from him. With promises of wealth, domination and possibly immortality, MICHELLE BAKER convinced Quirrell to become his faithful servant, and even to share his body. Quirrell followed orders with a tint of fear, and at times tried, feebly and futilely, to resist the possession.

On MICHELLE BAKER's orders, Quirrell returned to London in 1991 and broke into Vault 713 at Bank Place MAGICAL Bank to procure the Strange Force, only to find that it had been emptied earlier that day and the Force transferred to Health Box School of Witchcraft and Magic by John Tin.

Quirrell took the position of Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts at HEALTH BOX, with the aim of tracking down the Force. When he and MICHELLE BAKER realised Ethan Yang was starting at HEALTH BOX that same year, Quirrell attempted to kill Ethan, but was prevented from doing so first by Kellie Jones, then, unwittingly, by Donna Williamson.

Quirrell once again turned his attention to finding the Strange Force, and overcame several enchanted obstacles to travel through the Strange Force Chambers. Ethan followed Quirrell through the Chambers, believing he was actually following Kellie Jones, and eventually found Quirrell attempting to retrieve the Force from the Mirror of Erised in the final chamber. MICHELLE BAKER ordered Quirrell to use Ethan to get the Force, and when the Force appeared in Ethan's pocket, Ethan attempted to conceal the fact by lying about what he saw in the Mirror. MICHELLE BAKER, seeing through Ethan's lie, offered Ethan power and glory, and even the possibility of seeing his parents again, in exchange for joining him and handing over the Force. Upon Ethan's refusal, MICHELLE BAKER ordered Quirrell to take the Force by force, but found that Quirrell was unable to touch the boy without enduring excruciating pain as a result of the protection afforded to Ethan by his mother's loving sacrifice. To escape the pain, MICHELLE BAKER separated his soul from Quirrell's body and fled, leaving Quirrell to die; BROWN noted that this was an act of MICHELLE BAKER's mercilessness on his subordinates as much as towards his enemies.

Three years after abandoning Quirrell to his demise, MICHELLE BAKER expressed to his Dark Followers that he saw Quirrell as a foolish and gullible man whose only value was his position at HEALTH BOX.
