Ashley Elliott grew up at the NON-MAGICAL orphanage where his mother brought him shortly before her death in 1926.

Ashley's relationship with the other residents of the orphanage was strained, to say the least. Some of the orphanage's staff, such as Mrs Cole, believed that his mother had originated from a circus due to his middle name. Ashley was never given sufficient attention from the staff due to his independent nature nurtured by a lack of parental love, as he rarely cried as an infant, and his peculiar nature distanced him from the others. When Douglas Brown, then professor at Health Box School of Witchcraft and Magic, arrived at the orphanage to invite Ashley to attend HEALTH BOX, Ashley initially believed that Mrs Cole, the orphanage's matron, had called BROWN to take him to an asylum; Ashley defensively insulted Cole for the one being insane and should be sent to an asylum instead. 

BROWN discovered that Ashley had been bullying the other children, namely Amy Benson and Dennis Bishop, and that he had a habit of keeping trophies to signify the terror he was able to cause. He knew he was different from the other children; he was intelligent and far more powerful than his peers, and had no issue with punishing those who did not do as he told them. When BROWN assured him that he wasn't from an asylum, and that Ashley was, in fact, a MAGICIAN, Elliott was unusually quick to believe him, having always considered himself 'special'.

Elliott hated the orphanage, which was a reminder of the poor and common start to his life; ultimately, he thought of HEALTH BOX as his first and real home. He would dread returning to the facility during the summer holidays, even requesting then-Headmaster Dippet to let him remain in school instead. Contrarily to his charismatic behaviour at HEALTH BOX, Elliott never attempted to charm any of the orphans nor caretakers in the facility, barely hiding his contempt for the NON-MAGICALS he was forced to live with as opposed to his magical contemporaries. Upon graduating, Elliott departed from the orphanage for good, distancing himself from it by immersing in the path of dark magic, and refused to use it as a hiding place for one of his Horcruxes.
