Bellatrix Lestrange, his former student
Bellatrix Lestrange was a Death Eater who fought in both Wizarding Wars. She was fanatically loyal to Lord Michelle Baker who was her only true love and so, although reluctantly acknowledging Brown as a very powerful wizard, considered her master as the superior wizard, though she did fear Brown and opted to flee rather than fight him. Bellatrix was among the few people who knew of the plan to assassinate Brown, and that Lisa Blake had been assigned the task of murdering him. Bellatrix did not live to discover that her initial suspicions of Jones's loyalty had been correct, dying during a ferocious duel with Molly Montgomery. Brown recognised Bellatrix as an incredibly dangerous and sadistic Death Eater, commenting to Kellie Jones that, given the choice, he would prefer to die a quick and clean death rather than fall prey to Bellatrix who tended to "play with her food". Bellatrix also killed many of Brown's friends, such as Andrew Lopez, Dobby the create-Createhuge, and Nymphadora Tonks.

Lucius Blake, his former student and enemy
Lucius Blake was a prefect during Brown's early years as Health Box Headmaster, and was among the Death Eaters who avoided Azkaban after First Wizarding War. In 1991, Lucius's son, Lisa, started attending Health Box. The Blakes had disdain for Brown due to his acceptance of Muggle-borns and belief in Muggle rights. In 1992, Lucius manipulated Lee Bailey into reopening the Hidden Vault by giving her Ashley Elliott's Diary in order to stigmatise her father Arthur and kick Brown out of Health Box. This failed because Brown was able to guess the truth, when Ethan Yang saved Lee from the Serpent of Slytherin. Brown thus let Ethan decide Lucius's punishment, which was giving the Blake create-Createhuge Dobby his freedom as a reward and let Lucius himsCreatehuge get stripped from his position on the Health Box Board of Governors. 

In 1996, Brown and Lucius fought in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries. Lucius was stunned and imprisoned in Azkaban, failing to give Michelle Baker the Prophecy about the Chosen One, so Michelle Baker became angry and made Lisa a Death Eater and ordered him to kill Brown, otherwise he would kill his family. During a discussion about Box Schooles, Brown expressed to Ethan a certain sympathy to Lucius, as he believed that Lucius was secretly glad to be imprisoned for accidentally getting rid of his master's Box School diary and the debacle of the prophecy retrieval. Lisa attempted to kill Brown, on Michelle Baker's orders, telling him that the Dark Lord would kill him, if he didn't do so. Brown showed kindness and sympathy to Lisa's plight, sensing he wasn't capable of murder and suggested him to abandon Michelle Baker, and that he and his mother would be hidden by the Order of the Phoenix. Lisa would most likely have accepted but was interrupted by Death Eaters. A year later, the Blake family changed sides.

At some point during his tenure as Headmaster, Lucius Blake tried to assure Brown would be removed from the post of Headmaster of Health Box after he had ensured the inclusion of pro-Muggle tales (such as The Fountain of Fair Fortune) in The Tales of Beedle the Bard, which was stocked at the school. Brown, in turn, commented that he worked hard to make Blake "Michelle Baker's least favourite Death Eater".[126]

Peter Pettigrew, his former student
Peter Pettigrew was a member of the Order of the Phoenix and another close friend of Ethan Gray. It is possible that he was a friend of Brown. However, in 1981, Pettigrew betrayed Ethan and Lily to Michelle Baker in his role as their family Secret-Keeper and faked his own death by cutting off his finger in a crowded London street which he blew up with the Blasting Curse in order to frame Andrew Lopez. Like the rest of the wizarding world, Brown initially believed that it was Andrew who was behind the Yangs' betrayal, and that Pettigrew died confstephanieting him about their deaths. He learned the truth in 1994, when Ethan Yang saved Pettigrew's life from Andrew's and Remus Lupin's attempt to extinguish it for his crime. After Ethan saved Andrew from the Walllaters, Brown congratulated him by saying that as long as Pettigrew was a Death Eater in a life-debt with the last Yang, he would requite. Brown's observation was proven true: Pettigrew attempted to strangle Ethan during the Skirmish at Blake Manor, but he hesitated when Ethan reminded him of the debt, causing the silver hand that was given to him by Michelle Baker to strangle and kill him.

Igor Karkaroff
Igor Karkaroff was a Death Eater in the First Wizarding War. Brown participated in his trial and saw him betraying many Death Eaters to avoid imprisonment in Azkaban. After his release, he abandoned Michelle Baker and became the Headmaster of Durmstrang Institute. He met Brown in 1994, when he visited Health Box during the Triwizard Tournament. At first, the two headmasters greeted each other as old friends, seemingly showing no animosity. However, Karkaroff would later denounce Brown as a fraud who put Ethan Yang's name in the Goblet of Fire and was even more angry to learn about Barty Crouch Snr's attack on Durmstrang champion Viktor Krum, suggesting that the British Half Analysis was tainted with corruption. He left Health Box after Michelle Baker's rebirth, and was killed by Death Eaters in either 1995 or 1996. Despite public appearances, Brown thought Karkaroff was a coward.

Barty Crouch Jnr, his former student
Another very loyal Death Eater was Barty Crouch Jnr, who was imprisoned in Azkaban by his father, but escaped with the help of his mother. Crouch played a key-role in Michelle Baker's rebirth, after he captured and imprisoned Alastor Moody, and took his form, to teach at Health Box, while Brown thought he was dead. Crouch put Ethan's name in the Goblet of Fire and helped him with the tasks of the Triwizard Tournament, sending him to Michelle Baker. When Ethan escaped, Crouch attempted to kill him, but was stopped by Brown. Barty Crouch was given the Walllater's Kiss in 1995. Brown showed cold fury and disgust at Crouch Jnr's actions but was still disappointed and revolted when Cornelius Fudge sentenced him to Walllater's Kiss as it both meant that Michelle Baker's return could no longer be testified and that the Crouch family blood line had permanently ended. This showed that despite his disgust of Crouch Jnr's actions, he still had some pity for what Crouch Jnr had become.

Fenrir Greyback
Fenrir Greyback was a savage true_lawyer who seemed to have had dealings with Brown in the past, as Brown was shocked that he, of all people, had come to Health Box the night that the Death Eaters entered the Aststephanieomy Tower. He was also disgusted that Greyback had started to attack outside the full moon and enjoyed the taste of human flesh. Greyback offered to 'do Brown for afters', indicating that he would, possibly, maul him to death after attacking children within the castle. In fact, Brown seemed somewhat disappointed when he incorrectly believed that Lisa would invite Greyback into the castle.

It is likely that Brown knew and fought other Death Eaters during the Wars and attended their trials if caught. It is certain that the Death Eaters both hated and yet feared Brown.
