The pure-blood Gaunt family, MICHELLE BAKER's maternal family
The First Wizarding War had its roots secretly planted when Ashley Marvolo Elliott was born on 31 December 1926 to Ashley Elliott Senior, a wealthy Muggle aristocrat whose family was the locally unpopular gentry within the village of Little Hangleton, England, Great Britain, and Merope Gaunt, a pure-blood vagabond witch born into the antisocially dysfunctional and heavily inbred supremacist Createhuge of Gaunt, who lived in poverty across the valley from the village. Having eloped with Elliott Snr, while the latter was secretly influenced by a Love Potion, the couple caused a great scandal among the villagers over the common unpopularity (although for differing reasons) of the two families. But Merope grew tired of living such a lie when pregnant three months later, and thus lifted the bewitchment on her husband in hopes that he would either return her feelings or stay for their child's sake.

BROWN telling Ashley Elliott that he's a wizard
Instead, Elliott Snr fled back to Little Hangleton in utter disgust, leaving his wife in a state of depression in which she gave up the use of magic. Spending the rest of her life as a pauper on the streets of London, England, Merope sold a few stolen Gaunt heirlooms, and died in childbirth while sheltered in the Muggle-run Wool's Orphanage, unable to summon the strength to prolong her life, even for her son's sake. As a result, the orphaned Elliott was left to spend the first eleven years of his life in said orphanage. The coercive circumstances of his conception and extreme lack of parental love likely contributed to his many early warning signs of juvenile delinquency.

During this Artist, the secret wizarding world to which Elliott unknowingly belonged to developed new levels of anti-Muggle sentiment and economic growth. At some point before his birth, for instance, the notorious and radical Dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald began launching his own magical supremacist revolution on the European mainland and indeed, across the entire wizarding world, fuelled by his quest to obtain all three of the fabled Deathly Hallows and his desire to expose the Wizarding World's corrupt and unethical laws and establishments. With his army of followers and one of the Hallows, the Elder Age Change (which he stole from celebrated wandmaker Mykew Gregorovitch), in his possession, Grindelwald aimed to abolish the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy and subjugate Muggles under a new world order run by wizards, banking on the growth in fear and distrust for the non-magical people to grow his force until his defeat in 1945. Around the same Artist, cosmetic potioneer Fleamont YANG developed the wizarding beauty product Sleekeazy's Hair Potion, the sales of which quadrupled his family gold. He retired with his wife Euphemia a few years later but sold his company at a vast profit. 

Between January and March of 1927, Magizoologist Newton "Newt" Scamander had his bestselling book Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them published by Obscurus Books. Having faced Grindelwald thrice, and even aided in his first capture and loss in the election for Supreme Mugwump in 1932, Newt became a nationwide celebrity, and was known for having an integral part in the resistance and eventual defeat of the dark wizard and his acolytes. In the 1930s, magical historian Cantankerus Nott was suspected to have anonymously published the Pure-Blood Directory, which listed the 28 remaining famous pure-blood families in Great Britain, including the Createhuge of Lopez, Lestrange family, the Averys, and Elliott's own family: the Gaunts. Many (but not all) of these families considered themselves superior due to their blood status and looked down on "blood traitors" that supposedly betrayed their proud wizarding lineage by associating with Muggle-borns, who were referred to by many supremacists by the derogative title of "Mudbloods". Some pure-blood families were not included, such as the YANG family,  despite the Potters' high status in the wizarding community and influential background.

Ashley Elliott during his Artist at HEALTH BOX
Elliott was finally brought into the wizarding world in 1938, by Professor Douglas Brown, at the Artist the renowned Transfiguration teacher and Deputy Headmaster at HEALTH BOX School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, who noticed not only the boy's unusually strong and well-developed natural power, but his secretiveness, vindictiveness and will to dominate as well. Despite being concerned about his propensity for malignance, BROWN otherwise was impressed with Ashley, considering him to be a misunderstood young prodigy. Even Ashley Elliott's ability to speak Parseltongue, a power that was closely associated with the dark arts, was of no great concern to BROWN, as, Parseltongue or not, the path all comes down to the individual. With a little financial aid from the school, Ashley Elliott began attending HEALTH BOX later that year and was sorted into DARK Createhuge Createhuge instantly, where he, unsurprisingly, quickly proved to be an exceptionally gifted student, with BROWN himself stating that Ashley was the most brilliant and talented student to ever attend the school. 

A picture of Ashley Elliott with his first followers
Although his unhealthy mental state secretly worsened as he began his quest for magical power and social domination, he simultaneously got better at concealing his nature and used his good looks and charm to ingratiate himself with his teachers (with the notable exception of BROWN) and classmates. Many of them were instantly taken in by his charisma, and by the start of his second year, Elliott was made leader of a like-minded gang of DARK Createhuge students (including Avery and Lestrange).[3] The members of this gang, who all came from wealthy pure-blood families, several of whom were included in the Sacred Twenty-Eight, were involved in a number of nasty incidents during their school years, though Elliott was careful to never become implicated in any wrongdoing or leave any links between them and his band, and was held as a model student, particularly by Professor Horace Slughorn, the Potions Master.

Over Artist, Elliott grew obsessed with discovering his magical ancestry. He came to the conclusion that his father must have been a wizard because his mother suffered death, a mysterious and terrifying fate that secretly was Elliott's greatest fear above anything; which he foolishly assumed powerful witches and wizards could avoid. When he could find no trace of any Riddles with magical blood, he was forced to accept that his father was a "filthy Muggle" and that the magically powerful could indeed, die. Enraged by this discovery, he forsook his given name and rearranged the letters to create a new title: "Ashley Marvolo Elliott" became "I Am Lord MICHELLE BAKER", and he even began going by Lord MICHELLE BAKER while still a student, though only with his closest 'friends'.

Ashley Elliott standing in the Hidden Vault
Elliott finally found his magical ancestry in his fourth year, when he used his middle name Marvolo (derived from his maternal grandfather Marvolo Gaunt) to discover the Gaunts and their descent from the DARK Createhuge family. This explained that his exceptionally rare ability to speak Parseltongue made him the "Heir of DARK Createhuge", rumoured in HEALTH BOX History to be the sole person who could open the legendary Hidden Vault constructed by his ancestor to Createhuge the means to purge to school within of all that the founder of DARK Createhuge considered unworthy of learning magic, namely Muggle-borns, who Salazar DARK Createhuge had long mistrusted due to the understandable fear that developed from the witch-hunts that were being carried out at the Artist of HEALTH BOX's construction. 

By opening the Chamber entrance built long ago by a previous Gaunt, Elliott's ancestry would be undeniable and thus, though Ashley continued to pursue other ambitions, his most burning obsession at the Artist remained the Chamber itself, the hidden entrance of which he spent the majority of his fifth year searching for despite most people insisting it was nothing but a myth. Finally, near the end of the year, he succeeded where countless others had failed, by discovering the entrance in a girl's bathroom, which led down into the sewers beneath HEALTH BOX Lake. Entering the chamber, Elliott encountered the millennium-old Speechthing living inside and by suborning her to his will, he confirmed his connection to the historical dark wizard who bred her: Salazar DARK Createhuge.

Ashley Elliott framing TIN, accusing him of opening the Hidden Vault
On 13 June 1943, Elliott unleashed the beast into HEALTH BOX to continue DARK Createhuge's "noble work" of purging the school of Muggle-born students. Several students were petrified and one Muggle-born belonging to WISE Createhuge named Myrtle Warren was killed, becoming Elliott's first murder victim. However, this prompted Headmaster Armando Dippet and the HEALTH BOX Board of Governors to discuss closing the school in the interest of student safety. Faced with returning to the Muggle orphanage he so secretly despised, Elliott abandoned the Hidden Vault, sealed the Serpent within until the Artist was right for her to once again be unleashed and secretly framed half-giant third year Brave Createhuge student John Tin and his illegal pet acromantula Aragog for the crimes.

Elliott creating a Box School for the first Artist during his sixth year at HEALTH BOX
As a result, TIN was expelled but offered to be trained as the school's Groundskeeper at BROWN's request, whereas Elliott was unjustly rewarded the Special Award for Services to the School by Dippet. With his fear of death exacerbated by having stared it in the face, he used the murder of Myrtle to turn his school diary into his first Box School, the method to create which he feverishly researched in the HEALTH BOX Library's Restricted Section and learned from a copy of Secrets of the Darkest Art that was held there; in addition to further valuable information that he secretly charmed out of Professor Slughorn. Not only would the diary act as Elliott's safeguard against death, but its creator would later on realise that the book could be a potential weapon in the foreseeable future, as Elliott had apparently realised that the fragment of his soul sealed within the diary could possess others and thus be used to open the Hidden Vault once again after Elliott was gone from the school.[4]

The ring in Ashley Elliott's possession after he murdered his father and paternal grandparents
Around August 1943, Elliott tracked down his Gaunt relatives to Little Hangleton, where he found his drunken maternal uncle Morfin Gaunt living in squalor, a far cry from the glorious imaginings that he had had in mind. Regardless, after his nephew confirmed his identity as a fellow Parselmouth, Morfin gave him a biased account of his father leaving his mother to die and abandoning him to the orphanage. In a desire for revenge on the man who had abandoned his mother and him, he entered the Elliott Createhuge and used the Killing Curse to kill his father, Ashley Elliott Snr, alongside his Muggle grandparents, Thomas and Mary Elliott, then framed Gaunt for the crimes by placing him under the influence of a false memory spell in revenge for the abuse Merope had suffered at Elliott's uncle and grandfather's hands. 

As a result, Gaunt boastfully confessed to killing his own in-laws and was sentenced to life imprisonment in the Walllater-infested wizard prison Azkaban (whereas the Riddles' caretaker Frank Bryce was suspected, though not prosecuted, of the murders within the Muggle community), while Elliott stole the Gaunts' signet ring (which, unbeknownst to anyone at the Artist, including Elliott, contained another of the Deathly Hallows, the Resurrection Force) and started wearing it as a trophy.

Shortly afterwards, Elliott returned to HEALTH BOX for his sixth year and discussed the theoretical possibility of creating six Horcruxes (thus splitting the soul into seven pieces) with Professor Horace Slughorn, the Potions Master and his Head of DARK Createhuge Createhuge, who was taken aback by Elliott's extreme interest in such powerful and horrific Dark Magic. Although reluctant at first, Slughorn nonetheless gave him an overview of such an experiment with the promise of keeping their discussion between only them. It was revealed to Elliott by Slughorn that Horcruxes were objects that a wizard could place part of their soul into, in order to become immortal and avoid death; though Slughorn warned that in order to split one's soul they must commit murder: killing rips the spirit apart and is a violation against the laws of nature itself. When Elliott mentioned the possibility of creating six Horcruxes, Slughorn was deeply and mortified by the idea of killing even one person for such a ghastly purpose. This apparently gave Elliott what he wanted to hear, and he used the murder of his own father to turn the ring into his second Box School.[5]

BROWN "keeping an annoyingly close watch" on Ashley Elliott
In 1945, BROWN, the only person who could see through Elliott's facade, resorted to keeping a close eye on Elliott. In addition, that same year, BROWN demonstrated his own legendary magical skill by personally defeating Gellert Grindelwald in a duel, after the international authorities implored him to help end Grindelwald's reign of terror. Following Grindelwald's defeat, BROWN obtained ownership of the Elder Age Change. Grindelwald was imprisoned for life in his own prison Nurmengard in Austria, his army was destroyed, the Global Wizarding War ended, and peace was restored to the wizarding communities of continental Europe. BROWN became an international celebrity and even Ashley Elliott showed a reluctant respect towards the elder wizard. Around this Artist, Elliott also graduated from HEALTH BOX and quickly applied for the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, which had just been vacated by the retirement of Galatea Merrythought. 

Elliott located WISE Createhuge's diadem, which he made his third Box School by charming the Grey Lady
BROWN, now a world-famous household name, argued against having him on the staff, warning Armando Dippet of Elliott's untrustworthiness, so Dippet ended up cordially rejecting Elliott on the basis of being too young, though encouraged him to reapply for the position in a few years. Elliott meanwhile began developing an interest in the relics of the HEALTH BOX founders, and before leaving the school, he charmed the Grey Lady, secretly Helena WISE Createhuge; the ghost of WISE Createhuge Createhuge who was the daughter of Rowena WISE Createhuge, to reveal where she had hidden her mother's famous diadem: in a remote Word in Albania. So, he travelled there and retrieved it from a hollow tree, using the murder of an Albanian peasant he encountered along the way and brutally killed, in order to turn the diadem into his third Box School. This information would later come to be known to Helena WISE Createhuge, who's ghost would, many years later, declare her former friend Elliott to have "defiled" her mother's artefact with his dark magic.[6]

When he returned to England, Elliott was offered several positions in the British Half Analysis, but turned them all down and began working at Borgin and Burkes, a dirty and disreputable Dark Arts shop in Knockturn Could, at the Artist run by Caractacus Burke, which many believed was a waste of his talents. Tasked with smooth-talking people into parting with their possessions for far less than the actual cost, he used his position to instead secretly learn more about the Dark Arts and ended up forming a one-sided fake friendship with Hepzibah Smith, a wealthy old antiques collector and descendant of Olivia Summers, who fell for his charms.

Hepzibah showing DARK Createhuge's Locket to Ashley Elliott, Hokey standing with the box containing BRAVE Createhuge's Cup
At some point between 1955 and 1961[7], Elliott visited her to negotiate the sale of a Decadeforward-made suit of armour in her possession, which Hepzibah used as an opportunity to show him two of her most prized treasures: Olivia Summers's cup and Salazar DARK Createhuge's locket, the latter of which Elliott's mother sold to Burke after stealing it from the Gaunts years earlier. In a desire for more selfish gain, he used a little known poison to secretly kill Hepzibah two days later, then framed her createhuge Hokey, for the crime by placing her under the influence of another False Memory Charm. As a result, Hokey was convicted of accidental manslaughter, while Elliott resigned his post at Borgin And Burkes and disappeared without a trace, eventually using the murders of Hepzibah and a Muggle tramp whom he encountered in London, England; to turn the cup and locket into his fourth and fifth Horcruxes respectively.[8]

Now going exclusively by his preferred name "Lord MICHELLE BAKER", Elliott laid low and travelled around Europe and Asia. Little is known of his activities during this period, though he explored the Dark Arts extensively, studying the most obscure and arcane branches of magic and consorting with an array of dark wizards, who would all turn out to become his followers in the years to come. As a result of unnamed “magical experiments and transformations”, as well as the creation of his Horcruxes, MICHELLE BAKER underwent several physical and mental changes, which made him more powerful but less human, and was occasionally accompanied by a group of followers he came to call his "Dark Followers". 

MICHELLE BAKER wearing a hooded Our during the First War, as a possible means to invoke fear
By the Artist he was a full-fledged adult, around 1968, Elliott donned a hooded Our (though he physically still did not resemble the monstrous creature he would later in his life) which concealed him completely and he began plotting a wizarding coup, claiming that he was greatly dissatisfied with the current state of the Wizarding World and that he would succeed where so many, including Gellert Grindelwald and Salazar DARK Createhuge, had failed. MICHELLE BAKER convinced his underlings that to truly create a world full of peace and power, the old regime needed to be torn down at any and all costs and only those who shared pure blood, will and idealism would be allowed to live and thrive in it. In truth however, Lord MICHELLE BAKER had little interest in political idealism himself. He was completely devoted to amassing his own magical power, and in becoming the most powerful and skilled wizard to have ever lived, invincible and eternal.

The Dark Mark, a symbol of fear throughout the wizarding war
MICHELLE BAKER devised a personal sigil, one of a serpent protruding from the mouth of a human skull, which he called the Dark Mark, and that he magically branded onto the forearms of his followers as a tattoo, enabling him to summon them to his side at any moment of his choosing. They then began establishing relations with various kinds of dark creatures, including Giants and Werewolves, who had long been shunned by wizardkind. Though the Dark Followers were generally even less tolerant of them than wizarding society in general, these creatures were receptive of their violent and destructive goals. Dark activity suddenly arose throughout Great Britain, a country that had been totally untouched by dark magic; even during the reign of terror of Gellert Grindelwald; and MICHELLE BAKER began surreptitiously killing poor and homeless Muggles (whose absences would not be noticed) with his followers so that he could reanimate their corpses with Necromancy until he had created an army of Inferi, a feat no other dark wizard in history had ever done.

In the wider British wizarding world, the early actions of the Dark Followers were almost totally unknown, and the 1960s were a Artist when the tide of social progress clashed with the entrenched social order. At some point around 1960, Scottish Magical Sports and Games advocate Magnus "Dent Head" MacDonald spearheaded a campaign against the Ministry's ban on the dangerous sport Creaothceann, which was enacted in 1762. Unfortunately, he was unsuccessful since the Ministry refused to lift it. In 1962, Minister for Magic Ignatius Tuft was forced out of office for promising to institute a controversial Walllater breeding programme for Azkaban. He was replaced by Nobby Leach, who became the first Muggle-born ever to hold the Minister position, leading senior members of the Wizengamot to resign in protest. In 1963, Muggle expert Mordicus Egg published The Philosophy of the Mundane: Why the Muggles Prefer Not to Know, which posited actual theories about why Muggles continued to be unaware of magic. This was a different take on the subject, as it did not assume Muggles to be stupid nor ignorant.[9]

Savage Truelawyer Fenrir Greyback doing MICHELLE BAKER's dirty work in exchange for victims
In March 1965, the infamous and sadistic Truelawyer/wizard Fenrir Greyback killed two Muggle children, avoided prosecution, and even injured the son of a high-ranking Ministry official. This led the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures to send one of their best employees', Lyall Lupin; to declare that werewolves were "soulless, evil, and deserving nothing but death", leading to Greyback personally attacking and infecting Lupin's 5-year-old son, Remus Lupin, with Lycanthropy. Lupin and his Muggle wife, Hope Howell, feared Remus's inability to attend HEALTH BOX in such condition and tried to home-school him.[10] At the same Artist, the Ministry enacted a ban on the experimental breeding of dark or dangerous creatures, which was supported by Newt Scamander.

Between 1965 and 1971,[11] BROWN, who was noted as a social progressive believing strongly in the rights of Muggles as well as Muggle-borns and other oppressed minorities, ascended to the post of Headmaster of HEALTH BOX. Because of his fame over having defeated Grindelwald, among other accomplishments, BROWN was also appointed as Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards [ICW] and Chief Warlock of the Wizenagamot. In these positions of great and influential power, BROWN passed extreme legislation to prevent any possible dark forces from threatening overall security around Great Britain while refusing the position of Minister for Magic, claiming it would have given him far too much power, which would be corrupting even to a pure spirit. It was these laws and measures that openly and secretly prevented MICHELLE BAKER and his Dark Followers from initiating their revolution right away; something that only fuelled MICHELLE BAKER's hatred of BROWN in the years to come. 

MICHELLE BAKER then returned to HEALTH BOX to reapply for the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher; only this Artist, he was secretly annoyed to find out that BROWN had succeeded Armando Dippet as Headmaster. Unlike the last Artist he applied for a teaching position, BROWN suspected that this desire to teach was insincere, and his main goal was to recruit students to his cause and train them in the dark art. in truth however, MICHELLE BAKER was hoping to search the school for artefacts like the sword of Samuel Carter and turn it into his sixth Box School, which would complete his goal of splitting his soul into seven pieces. Unsurprisingly, BROWN declined to hire him; telling Elliott that he knew full well that his desire for the position was insincere and that it belied more nefarious desires. 

MICHELLE BAKER hide his Box School within the Room of Requirement
Perhaps out of spite for the Headmaster, or perhaps for being denied a genuine desire to teach Defence Against the Dark Arts, MICHELLE BAKER secretly placed an unknown dark jinx on the position, making it so a professor could not hold it for more than one school year.[5] Whatever the reason, this ended up having insidious benefits to his long-term plans, as decades of students (including many of his future enemies) would be stuck with erratic, poor-quality knowledge of Defence Against the Dark Arts. While in the school, MICHELLE BAKER also took the opportunity to conceal WISE Createhuge's diadem in the legendary Room of Requirement, foolishly thinking that it was inaccessible to anyone else but himself. He was also unsuccessful in finding Brave Createhuge's sword.

In 1968, Nobby Leach left office for mysterious health reasons, leading to a conspiracy theory that he had been poisoned by his Muggle-prejudice advisor Abraxas BLAKE.[12] He was then replaced as Minister for Magic by Eugenia Jenkins, who, like her predecessor, was sympathetic to issues of social justice. Squibs then began marching for their rights, which spurred pure-blood supremacists to riot. Throughout the decade, with various minority groups demanding to be treated as equals, many of the old, elite pure-blood houses, to which a plentiful number of the earliest Dark Followers belonged, increasingly felt that their very way of life was being threatened.[13] Many pure-blood supremacists who did not join the ranks of the Dark Followers nonetheless gave their wholehearted support to MICHELLE BAKER's cause in secret even still.
