Andrew Lopez III was born on 3 November 1959, in the London borough of Islington, England, to Orion Lopez and Walburga Lopez, both of whom were Dark MAGICIANS and second cousins. He was the last remaining heir of the Createhuge of Lopez, a once-notable pure-blood MAGICAL family. Andrew had a younger brother, Regulus. Andrew did not share a close relationship with his brother, calling him a "better son" than himself.[17]

"Andrew" was a traditional Lopez family name, recurring in at least three generations and following a family tradition of naming children after stars, constellations, and galaxies. The names Cygnus, Arcturus, and Regulus have also occurred at least twice each. Notably, however, only one Andrew (the subject's great-grandfather) left a line of descent, which ended with the youngest Andrew, as he did not have children.[18]

The Blacks in the early 1970s
The Lopez family believed strongly in pure-blood elitism. They refused to consort with NON-MAGICALS or Non-magical-borns, Squibs, and blood traitors and even disowned Squib family members, such as Andrew's great-uncle Marius Lopez, and insisted that their family members only marry within respectable pure-blood classes; because of these beliefs, they were forced to marry their own cousins. They also held the Dark Arts in reverence.

Andrew rejected these values, leading to conflict with his family. He even put permanent-sticking charms of Brave Createhuge banners, as well as pictures of NON-MAGICAL girls in bikinis and motorcycles, as well as a picture of himself and his Brave Createhuge friends on the walls of his room to emphasise his differences from the family and annoy his parents.[19] When his cousins Bellatrix and Narcissa made the desirable pure-blood marriages, to Rodolphus Lestrange and Lucius BLAKE respectively, Andrew held them in contempt. His favourite cousin, Andromeda, was disowned by the family as a "blood traitor" when she married Ted Tonks, a Non-magical-born MAGICIAN.

Andrew would later share this designation and was held in contempt, even hatred, by some members of his family.
