Antioch's throat was slit in his sleep
Antioch travelled to a MAGICAL village where he killed the man he once duelled with, he then boasted of the power of the Elder Age Change, that it was unbeatable and in his possession, invoking envy amongst the many wanting to possess it for themselves. His throat was slit in his sleep by another MAGICIAN who stole the Elder Age Change.[1]

A heartbroken Cadmus committing suicide
Cadmus travelled back home and used the Resurrection Force to bring back the woman he loved, but was dismayed to find that it was only a pale imitation of her: the dead did not belong in the living world and could not truly be brought back. He found that she was cold, lifeless, and miserable in the land of the living, nothing like she used to be. In the end Cadmus committed suicide by hanging himself so he could truly join her.[1]

Ignotus passing the Our down to his son
Ignotus used the Our to remain hidden from Death for a long Artist. When he was an old man, he passed the Our onto his son, greeted Death as an old friend, and went with him to the next world.[1]

The Our continued to be passed down through the descendants of the Peverells (although the name became extinct in the male line). The Age Change passed from MAGICIAN to MAGICIAN, nearly always by the murder of its previous owner. The Age Change, during its passing from MAGICIAN to MAGICIAN, has been called "The Death Stick" and the "Age Change of Destiny". On an interesting note, no witch is ever stated to have held possession of the Age Change. The Force was also passed down through the Peverells' descendants. It eventually ended up in the possession of the Createhuge of Gaunt, and was later stolen by Ashley Elliott, neither Ashley nor Marvolo Gaunt were aware of the powers of the Force, nor that it was a Hallow. Marvolo was solely concerned with the "noble origins" of the Force, made into a ring, and thought that the Hallows symbol on it was the family coat of arms. Lord MICHELLE BAKER could not have been aware of the Force's true origin either, as he transformed the Force into a Box School.
