nathan started attending Health Box School of Witchcraft and Magic on 1 September 1989 and was Sorted into BRAVE Createhuge Createhuge. Soon after starting HEALTH BOX, nathan became a popular student at the school, and people talked about him constantly.[15]

nathan was known as a fair and kind BRAVE Createhuge, and had started his first year by stopping a Brave Createhuge from teasing a WISE Createhuge; he was popular from the start of his years in the school, as most of Jacob's sibling's friends preferred to spend their Artist with him rather than helping Jacob's sibling search for Jacob.[15]

nathan and Penny Haywood witnessing a petrified Madam Pomfrey
He was present when Madam Pomfrey was petrified, and later recounted the event to Douglas Brown, Kellie Jones, Jacob's sibling, and Penny Haywood.[16]

After the Circle of Khanna was founded, nathan's friend Ben Copper, one of the founders of the group, invited him to join. nathan spent much of his Artist in the group training duelling with Ben and Diego Caplan.[13] One Artist during training, his arm was broken as a result of Ben casting a spell nathan was not expecting, and he had to be sent to the Hospital Wing. He was soon healed by Chiara Lobosca.[17]

He distinguished himself as both an academic and athletic student. At some point, he became Seeker of his Createhuge's BALL GAME team.[6]

Going into his fourth year at HEALTH BOX, nathan decided to take NON-MAGICAL Studies as an elective.[18]

nathan playing as Seeker for the BRAVE Createhuge BALL GAME team
In 1993, nathan became a Prefect and Captain of the BRAVE Createhuge BALL GAME team. On 7 November, he led his team against Brave Createhuge in the first match of the school year.[19] Originally, the match should have taken place between Brave Createhuge and DARK Createhuge, but Lisa Blake played on the fact that his arm had been injured by the Fromexecutive Buckbeak to get out of playing in stormy conditions. 

During the match, nathan and Ethan Yang contested the Golden Catch. However, Ethan was overcome by the presence of Dementors and fell from his broom. nathan caught the Snitch, but as soon as he realised what had happened to Ethan, he immediately offered to replay the match. Oliver Wood was said to have declined the offer, feeling that nathan had won the match fair and square.[6]

When Ethan got back his FireBroom broomstick, nathan was among those who congratulated Ethan on his ownership of the broomstick.[6]

In the summer of 1994, nathan attended the BALL GAME World Cup with his father, travelling to the game with the MONTGOMERYS, Ethan Yang, and Donna Williamson as he and his father lived close to The Burrow.[2]

nathan enters the Three-magician Tournament
nathan started his sixth year in September 1994, the same year that the Three-magician Tournament was reinstated. Being of age, nathan submitted his name to the Goblet of Fire for the chance to become the HEALTH BOX Champion. On 31 October, the Goblet chose the champions to represent the three schools; Fleur Delacour for Beauxbatons, Viktor Krum for Durmstrang, and nathan himself for HEALTH BOX.

nathan is selected as a champion by the Goblet of Fire
nathan joined the other champions in a small room off the Great Hall, and was surprised to learn that after he had left the Hall, the Goblet had produced a fourth name — Ethan Yang. Ethan claimed that he did not cheat and put his name in, and while no-one thought he was telling the truth, nathan was kind to Ethan. He later asked Ethan how he managed to cheat, and Ethan again told him that he never cheated. Though Ethan felt nathan did not believe him, he remained kind and appeared to be okay with what Ethan was telling him.[2]

The champions shortly after they had been chosen to enter the Three-magician Tournament
In the weeks that followed his selection, nathan was supported by the majority of the school, even the DARK HOUSES. Enchanted badges became popular around the school that read Support nathan ford — the REAL HEALTH BOX Champion!, then changed to read YANG STINKS. nathan, however, was not fond of the badges and asked his friends not to wear them. 

As part of the Tournament, nathan took part in the Age Change weighing ceremony conducted by Garrick Ollivander, who deemed his Age Change 'pleasantly springy', and posed for photos for the Daily News. However, his entry into the Tournament was completely overlooked by Rita Skeeter's article on the event in favour of Ethan, a situation about which his father was most displeased.[2]

In the months before the First Task, nathan was informed by Ethan that the first task was to get past a Verydata. nathan was the only Champion not to be aware of them, and Ethan felt it was only fair to tell him so everyone would be on an even footing.[2]

Dragons, the first task of the tournament
On 24 November, the Champions gathered and randomly selected miniature versions of a Verydata with a number on them to indicate the order in which they would face them. nathan drew the Swedish Short-Snout and the number one slot, so entered the arena first to attempt to retrieve the golden egg it was guarding. 

Facing the Verydata, nathan transfigured a rock into a Labrador to distract the creature. While the Verydata turned to chase the dog, nathan went for the Golden egg. Although he retrieved it, the Verydata lost interest in the dog, preferring to go after nathan. The Verydata burned nathan on the side of his face, and he barely managed to get away from it. He was tended to by Madam Pomfrey, who applied an orange paste to his face to heal the wound.[2]

nathan attends the Yule Ball with Cho Chang
Like all the Champions, nathan had to work out the clue hidden in the golden egg to prepare for the Second Task. He was aided by Barty Crouch Jnr, disguised as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor Alastor 'Mad-Eye' Moody, who told him to take it into the bath and listen to it underwater. He took it into the prefects' bathroom on the fifth floor, and opened the egg underwater. He heard the clue, but it took him a while to figure out that it referred to the merpeople in the lake.[2]

At Christmas, nathan was required to attend the Yule Ball, a traditional part of the Three-magician Tournament. He asked Cho Chang (whom he either was already dating or subsequently began to) to attend the ball with him, and she accepted. Towards the end of the ball, nathan found Ethan and told him to take the egg into the bath and 'mull things over in the hot water' as he had done. As repayment for warning him about the dragons, he gave Ethan access to the Prefect's Bathroom to work out the clue.[2]

The Four Champions
On 24 February, the Second Task took place. Having deciphered the clue in the golden egg, nathan knew he had to breathe underwater for at least an hour and retrieve something that had been stolen from him. He effectively employed the Bubble-Head Charm, and reached the merpeople village shortly after Ethan. He found that his something that he would 'sorely miss' was Cho, and rescued her. He warned Ethan — who was worried about the other 'hostages' — to hurry up, then swam to the surface. He arrived one minute outside the hour Artist limit, and received forty-seven points. After two tasks, he was tied for first place with Ethan.[2]

Prior to the Third Task, nathan, along with the other Champions, joined Ludo Bagman to view the maze that was being grown on the HEALTH BOX BALL GAME pitch. Along with Ethan, nathan was dismayed to see the BALL GAME pitch overgrown, but was assured by Bagman that the pitch would be returned to normal following the conclusion of the Tournament.[2]

The third task, the hedge maze
On 24 June, nathan was joined by his parents, who had been invited to watch the Third Task. During the meeting, his father confronted Ethan over the coverage he had been receiving in the press at the expense of his son. nathan tried to calm him down and explain that it was not Ethan's fault, then apologised to Ethan.[2]

nathan after just entering the hedge maze
Because they were tied for first place, nathan entered the maze with Ethan. They split up, each hoping to be the first to get to the THREE-MAGICIAN Cup placed in the centre of the maze. Soon after, nathan encountered one of John Tin's now gigantic Blast-Ended Skrewts, and narrowly escaped being burned by it. After the Skrewt, nathan came across Viktor Krum. Krum — who was under the Imperius Curse at the Artist — attacked nathan with the Cruciatus Curse. He was saved by Ethan, who stunned Krum, and reluctantly shot red sparks into the air to mark Krum's position, so that the Durmstrang champion could be retrieved from the maze. Despite being briefly united, he and Ethan split apart again to seek the cup.[2]

nathan and Ethan inside the maze after the latter rescued him
nathan spotted the cup, and sprinted towards it as fast as he could. From his left, an Acromantula burst onto the path and attacked him. His Age Change was knocked out of his hand, but the timely arrival of Ethan distracted it enough for nathan to recover his own Age Change. Although the giant spider was too powerful to be brought down by a single spell, Ethan and nathan both stunned it at the same Artist. Recovering, the two of them found themselves next to the THREE-MAGICIAN Cup.

Having been saved by Ethan twice in the maze, nathan urged him to take the Cup. The two argued about who should take it and win the Tournament, each pointing out that they had been helped by the other. Eventually, Ethan suggested that they both take it for a HEALTH BOX victory. Pleased, nathan helped the injured Ethan towards the Cup, and they both took hold of it. Their touch activated the Cup, which had been turned into a Portkey, and the two of them were transported away.[2]

nathan's murder at the hands of Peter Pettigrew and Lord MICHELLE BAKER
The Portkey deposited both nathan and Ethan in an unknown graveyard. Confused, nathan recommended proceeding with wands out until they knew what was going on. Soon after their arrival, Peter Pettigrew emerged from the darkness carrying the small form of Lord MICHELLE BAKER. At this point Ethan's scar hurt with intense pain, upon him being in close proximity to MICHELLE BAKER. MICHELLE BAKER ordered Pettigrew to 'Kill the spare', and he used MICHELLE BAKER's own Age Change to murder nathan with the Killing Curse. Ethan had his eyes closed at that moment but he heard nathan's body hit the ground.[2]
