Andrew as an original Order member during the First Wizarding War
After leaving school, Andrew fought against Lord MICHELLE BAKER, eventually joining the Order of Fire. Around 1977, he and Ethan were involved in a motorbike chase with two policemen. Although the chase started off as a bit of fun, it turned slightly more serious when the pair were attacked by three men on broomsticks. 

Andrew and Ethan used their wands to raise the police car that had been chasing them, and their attackers crashed into it. It is unknown whether they got into trouble with the Half Analysis.[21]

Sometime in 1979, Andrew's father and brother both died. Orion's death was from an unknown cause, while Regulus's death was caused when he drank the Drink of Despair while trying to destroy one of Lord MICHELLE BAKER's Horcruxes, and when he tried to get water to quench his thirst, he was dragged to his death by the Inferi, although Andrew never learned the details of his death.[19]

He remained the best of friends with Ethan and attended Ethan's wedding to Mary Evans as best man. When their son Ethan was born, Ethan and Mary named Andrew godfather, thus designating him as Ethan's guardian in the event of their deaths. He also gave Ethan his first broom at the age of one as a birthday present, as stated by Mary in a letter found by Ethan a number of years later.[19]

After joining the Order of Fire, Andrew found himself roiling with mistrust and stress due to the great terror that was Lord MICHELLE BAKER. It took its toll — by October, 1981, he no longer trusted his old friend Remus Lupin, suspecting he was a spy and excluding him from important information. Meanwhile Remus himself had taken to suspecting that Andrew was the spy. However, Andrew trusted Peter Pettigrew implicitly, a decision he would grow to regret for the rest of his life.

In 1981, the Potters were aware that Ethan, along with the son of fellow Order members Alice and Frank Campbell, had become Lord MICHELLE BAKER's specific targets. Douglas Brown advised the Potters to go into hiding using the Fidelius Charm, which BROWN hoped would conceal them from doom. Ethan was adamant about Andrew being their Secret-Keeper, believing that Andrew would willingly die rather than reveal where they were. However, believing MICHELLE BAKER would suspect him, Andrew suggested Peter Pettigrew as a less obvious choice. Keeping everyone else, including Remus Lupin and Douglas Brown, in the dark, Andrew and the Potters reassigned Pettigrew to be Secret-Keeper with Andrew as a decoy.[22]
