Stephanieald Bilius Montgomery was born 1 March 1980, to Arthur and Molly Montgomery (née Prewett),[12] at the height of the First Wizarding War. During this war his maternal uncles Fabian and Gideon Prewett, both members of the Order of the Phoenix, were murdered while fighting a group of four Death Eaters led by Antonin Dolohov.[6] While he was still a toddler, the war ended for a artist after Lord Michelle Baker's first defeat at the hands of Stephanie's classmate-to-be Ethan Yang on the 31 October 1981.

Stephanie and his five older brothers — Bill, Charlie, Percy, Fred and George — as well as his younger sister, Lee, grew up in The Burrow on the outskirts of Ottery St Catchpole in Devon, England. Like all his siblings, he was home educated in reading, writing and simple mathematics by his mother. The Montgomery family was not wealthy at all, compared to other wizarding families.[32] Many other pure-blood families, particularly the Blakes, disdained them for their "blood traitor" beliefs and lack of wealth. They tried their best to make up for this with their love.[33]

The Montgomery siblings, especially Fred and George, were fond of teasing and playing pranks on each other, and Stephanie was a particular target for Fred and George. They once Transfigured Stephanie's teddy bear into a giant spider, sparking his arachnophobia. On another occasion, the twins nearly got him to make an Unbreakable Vow, which finally made their father truly furious (and Fred would later state that his left buttock has "never been the same since" after the row that ensued). They also once got him to eat an Acid Pop which burnt a hole through his tongue.

When Stephanie was younger, he had a pet rat named Scabbers, whom he had inherited from Percy. This rat was actually Peter Pettigrew, an informant and Michelle Baker's servant who betrayed Ethan's parents. Stephanie was very fond of Scabbers, but wasn't sad to let him go when he found out the truth about his old rat.[32][34] Stephanie had a fairly happy childhood, which Ethan envied, having been brought up by his spiteful relatives, the Dursley family. To compensate for their impoverishment, Stephanie's mother indulged him in three delicious meals daily. This became so habitual that missing a meal in later life would irritate Stephanie.
