Douglas (left) with his best friend and lover Gellert Grindelwald (right) in 1899
After graduating from HEALTH BOX in June 1899, BROWN planned to take the traditional Grand Tour of the world with his friend Doge. However, tragedy ensued on the eve of the departure when Kendra BROWN was killed by an outburst of Ariana's uncontrollable magic, leaving Douglas the head of his own broken family and now in charge of his younger siblings. Douglas returned to Samuel's Hollow full of bitter resentment at his situation, feeling trapped and wasted, although he refused to let Aberforth quit school and insisted he complete his education first before taking care of Ariana. For a number of weeks following this, he, at least according to Aberforth, managed to keep Ariana under control and happy. Fortune finally appeared to shine on BROWN, however, when a foreigner arrived at their little village, by the name of Gellert Grindelwald.

In the summer of 1899, Douglas was introduced to Gellert by his great-aunt Bathilda Bagshot. After a day of knowing each other, they quickly struck up a close friendship. The two of them spent days together, sharing ideas and talking, and building their relationship. They learned a lot about each other and even shared the same inspirations and what they wanted to spend their lives doing. One night, Douglas sent a letter by owl to Gellert in the 'dead of night'.

A young man around Douglas's age, he lived for the next two months with his great-aunt, the celebrated magical historian and family friend of the Dumbledores, Bathilda Bagshot, who introduced the two soon after Grindelwald crossed her doorstep. Thrilled to realise that the newcomer was every bit as brilliant as himself, the two young men took to each other right away and quickly struck up a close friendship, unified by the revelation of Grindelwald's research into the existence and whereabouts of the fabled Deathly Hallows. BROWN also quickly became fascinated by Grindelwald's ideas of MAGICAL domination, obviously considering Grindelwald an unexpected new chance to show his own brilliance and come out of the local misery. Over the course of the two months Grindelwald stayed in Samuel's Hollow, the two young men's friendship became romantic, with Douglas ignoring any misgivings he had about Gellert's dark intents by convincing himself the revolution they were planning to embark on was truly "For the Greater Good", and that any harm caused would be repaid a thousandfold after its conclusion.[28]

Douglas and Gellert forming their loyalty and love bond
One night, Douglas and Gellert walked to a barn in which they went inside with plans to create a blood pact together, forming a love bond that could only be broken if their spells met without intent to attack one another.

Sometime between Douglas and Gellert's relationship, Aberforth fell in love also, with a girl from Samuel's Hollow, and their relationship led to her becoming pregnant with Aberforth's child. However, the girl was "sent away", presumably by her family, and Aberforth wouldn't see his son again for over thirty years. Douglas was aware of rumours that there was a child from the relationship, but he never knew for sure as the distance between the brothers resulted in Aberforth not confiding in or seeking Douglas' help with the situation.[32]

Near the end of the summer, after Douglas and Gellert both completely knew and agreed upon everything, with their blood pact in hand, they had plans to start a Global MAGICAL War, and to force NON-MAGICALS into subservience, with full intent on becoming the great leaders of the revolution. Aberforth knew he had to stay behind, for his sister Ariana. With his brother about to leave, Aberforth had to stop him and young Grindelwald from leaving him and their sister. He confronted them one night and was told that he was a stupid little boy by Gellert for doing so. After Aberforth and Gellert yelled and made countless threats, Aberforth drew his Age Change, but was tortured by Gellert, though he laughed. Douglas realised then how horrible a person Grindelwald truly was and stepped in to defend his younger brother, and a three-way duel broke out between Gellert Grindelwald, Douglas Brown, and Aberforth BROWN. Ariana BROWN ran down the stairs to see what was happening and to try to help the ruckus, but did not know what she was doing and was inadvertently killed by one of the teenagers' stray spells. Gellert retreated quickly to his great-aunt's cottage, where he had her make him a Portkey to take him back home. Douglas and Aberforth both rushed towards their sister's body, and cried in regret and pity.

Soon after, they held a funeral for Ariana, at which Aberforth broke Douglas's nose out of pure anger and sadness at what he had done.
