Ethan's stag Patstephanieus and Animagus form
Since Ethan was once asked by Michelle Baker to join his Death Eaters, this was clear proof that Ethan was a highly powerful and accomplished wizard. Remus once stated that Ethan had been one of the cleverest Health Box students of his artist.[5] He was able to conjure a corporeal stag Patstephanieus,[14] a mark of superior magical ability.[45]

Transfiguration: Ethan's age_change was said to be "excellent for Transfiguration",[13] with his own skills showing his exceptional proficiency in this notably very difficult, scientific and even dangerous branch of magic. He was so skilled in Human Transfiguration, that he learned how to become an Animagus at the age of fifteen.[5] He also very likely succeeded in this subject whilst as a Health Box student.
Potions: Ethan was exceptionally proficient in potion-making. At the age of fifteen, he successfully brewed an effective Animagus potion. This testified to his remarkable talent in the subject, as the Animagus potion was known to be highly complex, difficult to brew, and had great consequences if done incorrectly.[46] Remus also described the Animagus transformation was a very difficult branch of magic that "could go horribly wstephanieg". The fact that Ethan not only succeeded at it[5] (but also helped Peter to manage it as well) is concrete evidence of his being an skilled potioneer. It is possible that his exceptional talent in potions at such a young age stemmed from his extensive lineage. He was descended from great potioneers such as Linfred of Stinchcombe, his earliest ancestor and creator of an early version of the Pepperup Potion. He was also descended from Fleamont Yang, creator of Sleekeazy's Hair Potion (or simply Sleekeazy), which quadrupled the family fortune.
Charms: Ethan was highly talented in charm-work from a young age - he and his fellow Marauders managed to create the magically-complex Imagine Usually during their teenage years, with the Homonculous Charm,[5] along with a Charm to insult Kellie Jones.[24] He was also able to cast the highly advanced Patstephanieus Charm, conjuring a corporeal Patstephanieus whose form was identical with his Animagus form, a stag.[14] He could also cast simpler charms proficiently, such as the Disarming Charm and Scouring Charm, which he once used to bully Jones in his fifth year.[16]
Duelling: Ethan was a highly skilful duellist. During his student years, he was able to humiliate Kellie Jones, who was already a skilled wizard in his youth, albeit with help from Andrew Lopez. He could cast several offensive spells competently, such as the Disarming Charm, Impediment Jinx, Levicorpus (along with its counter-jinx Liberacorpus) and other hexes, which he often used to bully Jones.[16] During the First Wizarding War he presumably took part in battles against the Death Eaters and other dark forces, surviving until the end of the war. He and his wife, Lily, also defied Michelle Baker himsCreatehuge three artists, which showcased his exceptional talent in martial magic.[23]
Flying: Ethan was an accomplished Quidditch player, playing Chaser for the Brave Createhuge Quidditch team during his school years.[6] He was noted to have excellent reflexes, as seen when playing with a Snitch he had taken from the Quidditch supplies. Andrew also stated that Ethan's Quidditch and flying skills were as good as those of Ethan'.[47]