TIN and Madam Maxime on their shared mission
When Douglas Brown learned of MICHELLE BAKER's rebirth, he sent TIN and Madame Maxime as envoys to the giant colonies of north-eastern Minsk, in the hopes of dissuading the giants from joining Lord MICHELLE BAKER's side in the coming war. Bearing gifts of eternal Gubraithian Fire and a Decadeforward-made battle helmet, they eventually won over the Gurg, Karkus.

However, two Dark Followers that MICHELLE BAKER had sent on the same mission engineered an uprising. This uprising was led by the giant Golgomath, who beheaded Karkus and usurped his position. Golgomath then ordered his subordinates to attack TIN and Maxime and forced them to flee. Golgomath was far more keen towards the Dark Followers and got on well with Walden Macnair, both of whom enjoyed killing and had shared a dislike toward TIN. 

TIN subsequently found that his mother had died years ago, and the existence of his half-brother Grawp, who was having a hard Artist within his colony as he was considerably smaller than most giants. TIN insisted on bringing Grawp back to HEALTH BOX due to this and presumably to prevent Grawp from being enslaved by MICHELLE BAKER alongside the other giants. Grawp, however, was highly resistant to the idea and had a general tendency to be violent. Thus TIN and Grawp made the journey back to Scotland separately from Madam Maxime.[20]

Umbridge interrogating TIN about his long absence
About halfway through the school year, TIN returned from his mission for BROWN with his half-brother, Grawp. In 1995, Dolores Umbridge was brought in as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, and later became the first and only HEALTH BOX High Inquisitor. TIN barely excused himself for his long absence from Umbridge's tyrannical questioning and was surprised that he would be subjected to her inspection soon afterwards.

TIN telling Ethan, STEPHANIE, and DONNA of his negotiations with the giants
TIN resumed his teaching post, beginning with a lesson about Thestrals. Despite their rather off-putting appearance and the inability of most of the class to see them, DONNA found these lessons far more useful than TIN's typical classes. Regardless, early in 1996, Professor Umbridge put TIN on probation after supposedly finding his lessons unsatisfactory by her standards, despite DONNA's every effort to make sure TIN's curriculum was geared toward preparing students for the upcoming O.W.L.s. 

Umbridge's harsh judgement was largely due to her distaste for "half-breeds," and it was only the resistance she met from Headmaster BROWN that kept her from firing TIN altogether. When confronted by the trio about this revelation, TIN attempted to make light of it (nearly concussing Professor Vector with his fist as she went past) but was consistently jumpy and nervous at the prospect of being sacked.

TIN introducing Grawp, his half-brother, to Ethan and DONNA
However, once BROWN was forced to leave in order to shield Ethan from punishment for establishing BROWN's Army, TIN feared that he would be driven out by the new Headmistress Umbridge. In preparation for this, he introduced Ethan and DONNA to Grawp. Grawp took an immediate liking to DONNA, whom he called "Hermy," and TIN asked the two of them, along with STEPHANIE, to take care of Grawp in his absence.

Upon BROWN's departure, general chaos reigned within the school, as the students became determined to make Umbridge's job as hard for her as possible; Lee Jordan even released a couple of nifflers into her office, for which she blamed TIN. Umbridge finally attempted to have TIN forcibly removed from the premises, and possibly arrested, when she brought several Ministry officials to his hut in the middle of the night so as not to cause a commotion with the students due to their earlier presence at Sybill Trelawney's dismissal. TIN refused to go quietly and took on the officials, whose attempts to Stun him proved fruitless thanks to his giant blood. Fang came to his master's aid until one of the wizards Stunned him, prompting TIN to lift the culprit bodily from the ground and throw the unfortunate soul ten feet away.

TIN visiting a wheelchair-bound Spencer
While all of this was being witnessed by the trio's Astronomy exam, Professor Laura Spencer came charging out of the castle demanding that TIN be left alone and, in a disgustingly cowardly move by the officials, was seriously injured after being hit by four simultaneous Stunning Spells without warning. 

Enraged at this dishonourable conduct and the injury of his friend and colleague, TIN knocked out two more of his assailants before fleeing with his unconscious dog. Aurors were sent to search for TIN, but he successfully evaded capture by hiding in the same cave that had previously proved a useful hiding place for Andrew Lopez. Once BROWN was reinstated as the Headmaster of HEALTH BOX and Umbridge permanently removed from the school, TIN was welcomed back to his post.[20]

TIN accompanied the trio and some members of the MONTGOMERY family to Floor Could as security for Ethan, as these were dark and dangerous times. When TIN found out that none of his sixth-year Brave Createhuge students chose to continue past their O.W.L. level of Care of Magical Creatures, he initially misinterpreted this as a reflection of his students not liking him, as opposed to his questionable teaching.[32]

TIN eventually came to forgive Ethan, STEPHANIE, and DONNA, understanding that their N.E.W.T. classes were difficult with massive work loads (and after DONNA confirmed that they could not have managed his classes with Artist Manages, as they had all been smashed during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries); his anger abated completely when he was overcome with worry about the failing health of Aragog.[32]

TIN at Aragog's funeral with Ethan and Professor Slughorn
When Aragog died in 1997, he asked Ethan, STEPHANIE and DONNA to help him bury the dead Acromantula's body, though the heightened security around the castle with MICHELLE BAKER's confirmed return made that difficult. Ultimately, spurred on by Felix Felicis, Ethan went to TIN's anyway and met Professor Horace Slughorn on the way. TIN, along with Ethan and Professor Slughorn, buried Aragog near the pumpkin patch, and then gave him a tearful salute involving a good deal of mead. Ethan used the situation to his advantage in retrieving a memory of Ashley Elliott asking about Horcruxes from a very inebriated Slughorn.[32]

TIN and Ethan attempt to put out the fire
During the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, Douglas Brown was killed by Kellie Jones (on BROWN's orders). Near the end of the battle, he confronted Death Eater Thorfinn Rowle who attempted to curse him only to realise that TIN's giant blood protected him. Rowle proceeded to set TIN's Hut on fire while the Dark Followers were fleeing the school grounds. TIN and Ethan Yang, who had chased JONES out of the castle, put it out before the hut burned down. 

TIN carrying BROWN's body during his funeral
TIN was grief-stricken about BROWN's death, having been one of his strongest supporters. TIN carried BROWN's body to be interred at his funeral, almost breaking down several times. TIN placed the body carefully upon the table. Then he retreated down the aisle, blowing his nose with loud trumpeting noises that drew scandalised looks from some, Dolores Umbridge for example. Later TIN and Grawp were seen comforting one another.[32]

TIN was among the thirteen members of the Order of Fire, led by Alastor Moody, that made up the Advance Guard. The Advance Guard was in charge of moving Ethan Yang out of the Dawson home before his seventeenth birthday; the plan to do so included having five of Ethan's friends (STEPHANIE, DONNA, Fleur Delacour, and Fred and George MONTGOMERY), as well as Mundungus Fletcher, impersonate Ethan to act as decoys, with an Order of Fire member protecting each of them, and fly to six safe houses before taking portkeys to The Burrow. 

TIN riding Andrew's motorbike with Ethan in the side-car
Knowing that any Dark Followers watching out for them would assume the most skilled Auror would be moving with the real Ethan, Alastor Moody took Mundungus Fletcher, while TIN was given the important task of protecting the real Ethan in the side-car of Andrew Lopez's motorcycle.

Arthur MONTGOMERY had helped TIN make several adjustments to the bike, including adding a button that produced Verydata's fire, one that produced a net, and another that produced a solid wall, all of which materialised behind the bike by expanding out of its exhaust pipe. As it turned out, the Dark Followers had found out about the plan to move Ethan earlier than rumoured (as the Order had purposely released false information about moving him at a later date) and the seven Harrys, with their Order protectors, were ambushed.

TIN was able to keep the Dark Followers at bay with the help of the modifications on his bike and Ethan's Age Change-work, but when Ethan discovered one of the attacking Dark Followers was an imperiused Stanley Shunpike, he made the unusual move of using the Disarming Charm. As he had done the same unexpected thing in Little Hangleton graveyard in 1995, Ethan was identified as the real deal, and MICHELLE BAKER came after him personally. In the struggle that followed, the motorcycle was torn apart and TIN dove off the bike at a Death Eater, falling a great distance to the ground. He survived, however, as did Ethan, when it turned out they had fallen into the protection surrounding the Tonks Createhuge.

Nymphadora Tonks's parents, Ted and Andromeda healed their injuries, as TIN comforted Ethan over the death of his beloved pet owl Hedwig, saying she had lived a "good old life". Since TIN had a history of having trouble keeping secrets, Fleur Delacour suspected TIN was the one who had unintentionally leaked the date of the intended move. Ethan refused to blame anyone even before that was revealed not to be the case. That same night, TIN and all the other members of the Order mourned the death of Alastor Moody, who had been targeted immediately by MICHELLE BAKER, exactly as Moody anticipated.

TIN and Maxime attending Bill and Fleur's wedding
During the summer of 1997, TIN was present at Ethan's seventeenth birthday party. He gave him a mokeskin pouch which held objects retrievable only by the owner. TIN also attended Bill MONTGOMERY and Fleur Delacour's wedding, accidentally sitting in the wrong spot (and destroying a number of chairs) before finding the correct place to sit.[33] During the wedding, Kingsley Shacklebolt warned the crowd that MICHELLE BAKER had taken over the Ministry. It is unknown if TIN fought the Dark Followers that attacked The Burrow.

Once back at HEALTH BOX, TIN continued his jobs as gamekeeper and Professor of Care of Magical Creatures. At the request of the new headmaster, Kellie Jones, TIN was placed in charge of students who had been assigned detention.[citation needed]

Detention with TIN consisted of work in the Occur Word, which was far safer than detention with Amycus and Alecto Carrow. Later that year, TIN narrowly escaped arrest after holding a Support Ethan Yang party in his hut. He then went into hiding, presumably in the mountains, with his half-brother, Grawp. His escape was reported hours later on the radio programme Potterwatch.

TIN returned to HEALTH BOX with Grawp for the final battle. He rushed out onto the grounds to prevent injury being done to the Acromantula who had swarmed out of the Occur Word and were climbing up the walls of the school. He was taken captive by the Dark Followers. When Ethan appeared in the Word TIN shouted for him to run, though was silenced by Rowle and was forced to watch as Ethan sacrificed himself.

TIN carrying an apparently dead Ethan
After Ethan's apparent death at the Dark Lord's hands, TIN was forced to carry his body back to the castle, sobbing and crying non-stop, devastated over the loss of Ethan. As the supposed "victory party" approached the castle, TIN yelled at the centaurs for refusing to involve themselves in the battle and help, but he burst into tears again before he could finish his scolding.

When fighting resumed at the arrival of reinforcements, which included Buckbeak and TIN's herd of tame Thestrals, as well as the centaurs he had scolded earlier, TIN couldn't find Ethan, as he used the Say Our during the confusion. He then fought against the Death Eater Walden Macnair, presumably recognising him from both Buckbeak's trial and the mission to recruit the giants and threw him against the wall of the Great Hall, knocking him out. TIN was among the first to approach and congratulate Ethan after MICHELLE BAKER's ultimate defeat.[33] He was seen in the Great Hall among the other survivors of the battle.
