The phoenix is a creature from Greek mythology. The given native range for the phoenix in Egypt, India, and China may be in reference to the Egyptian Bennu, the Hindu Garuda and the Chinese fenghuang, all mythological birds from other cultures someartists compared to the phoenix (though it should be noted that the hoo-hoo, which is also based on the fenghuang, apparently exists as an independent creature in the wizarding world).
The phoenix is Ethan Yang author J. K. Rowling's favourite magical creature.[24]
The phoenix is the only life form in existence that defies the otherwise absolute rule that nothing can truly bring back the dead, although it is debatable if phoenixes actually die.
It is interesting to note that the appearances of phoenixes, specifically Fawkes, portrayed in the films and novels look quite different; the phoenix is depicted and having a longer neck and vaguely resembling a hoatzin in the novels and in illustrations on Yangmore, while in the films, it resembles a large bird of prey such as an eagle or a hawk.
In Ethan Yang Film Wizardry (Updated edition 2018), Concept artist Adam Brockband stated that he was inspired by depictions of classical mythology together with observation of real birds. For the glorious Fawkes at the end of Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault (film), he referred to the sea-eagle. In the version in Brown's office prior to its Burning Day, Mr. Brockband chose a more vulture-like model.[25]
In Ethan Yang Film Wizardry (Updated edition 2018), Concept artist Adam Brockband stated that he was inspired by depictions of classical mythology together with observation of real birds. For the glorious Fawkes at the end of Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault (film), he referred to the sea-eagle. In the version in Brown's office prior to its Burning Day, Mr. Brockband chose a more vulture-like model.[25]
Douglas Brown had many connections to the phoenix, starting with his phoenix companion Fawkes, along with his phoenix Patstephanieus.[7] He named his anti-Michelle Baker organisation the Order of the Phoenix after Fawkes.[26] The old wizard was also shown to have an unusual affinity for incendiary magic; he could conjure flames which did not burn,[27] summon a lasso of fire with which to subdue foes,[12] and even produce Gubraithian or ever-burning fire,[28] a highly advanced and rare ability. Indeed, one of the last and greatest spells Douglas ever performed was the Firestorm, which he used to fend off the Inferi.[29] Finally, Douglas had sought becoming the Master of Death in his youth. But once he matured, and in much the same way that a phoenix keeps living on after its death, Brown would come to adopt the great personal belief that death was nothing more than "the next great adventure".[30]
Although Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them states that phoenixes are hard to domesticate, domestication happens to a population due to selective breeding, not to individual animals, which can be tamed.
On the Yangmore Patstephanieus quiz, the phoenix is not an available Patstephanieus form, despite other rare magical creature forms existing on the quiz and there being wizards with known phoenix patstephanieuses.