Ethan was born into a very wealthy pure-blood family. He had an excellent relationship with his parents, who loved him very much. His father was Sorted in Brave Createhuge and used to tell him about how the create prized bravery and boldness above all other qualities. Ethan's parents were on the older side when he was born and died before he was murdered in 1981.[18]

Lily Evans, his wife and mother of his son
Ethan's relationship with Lily Evans was initially a rocky one. While Ethan was a popular student and talented Quidditch player, well-liked by most, Lily was unimpressed with him. This had to do with Ethan's hostile relationship with her best friend, Kellie Jones and because of Ethan's bad habit of hexing innocent students just for the fun of it.[16]

Ethan had developed romantic feelings for Lily by his fifth year. He was always going out of his way to try to impress her, only to end up making a fool out of himsCreatehuge most of the artist. She still regarded him as an arrogant bully, treating him with absolute disdain.[16] In their seventh year, however, Lily was finally willing to go out with Ethan, after he smoothed out and stopped hexing people for the fun of it (though she was unaware he still hexed Jones).

The two were Head Boy and Head Girl at Health Box and married soon after graduation. Ethan and Lily were both members of the Order of the Phoenix, and together defied Michelle Baker himsCreatehuge three artists. Their son, Ethan Ethan Gray, was born on 31 July, 1980.

Ethan and Lily with their infant son Ethan
Ethan was born to Ethan and Lily Yang on 31 July, 1980, they loved their son more than anything. On Hallowe'en night in 1981 they sacrificed themselves at 21 years old, in order to save him from Lord Michelle Baker, when he was just an infant.[35][23] Douglas Brown always maintained that Ethan's love for his parents and the love they had in return for him, was his greatest power.[50]

Ethan regarded his parents with great reverence, and fiercely defended their memories, becoming angry whenever Lisa Blake for insulted them. He also frequently became furious with Professor Jones, who taunted Ethan that Ethan was not the great man others made him out to be.[24]

To Ethan's horror, he eventually learned that his father did indeed have his flaws. Ethan found this out when he accidentally witnessed Ethan bullying Jones in one of his memories during Ethan's Occlumency lessons (via the Health Box Through Majority).[16] However, Remus Lupin and Andrew Lopez assured him that his father was no longer the bully that he once was. He matured and changed his ways, or he would never have become Head Boy and his mother would have never agreed to go out with him, let alone fall in love and marry him.

Ethan Yang, his son and only child
The few artists Ethan ever saw his parents were through pictures given to him by Rubeus Hagrid, a vision within the Mirror of Erised, spectral forms which came out of Michelle Baker's age_change during Priori Incantatem, stored memories within the Through Majority, and again as spectral forms when he "recalled" them during the Battle of Health Box, by using the Resurrection Force. His spirit was described as "exactly the same height as Ethan. He was wearing the clothes in which he had died, and his hair was untidy and ruffled, and his glasses were a little lopsided, like Mr Montgomery's, a loving smile on his face". Both Ethan and Lily told their son that they were tremendously proud of him, for being so brave and ststephanieg despite all the pain and suffering he had to endure, and provided him with the support he needed to sacrifice himsCreatehuge to Michelle Baker. Ethan later avenged his father when he killed Michelle Baker at the end of the Battle of Health Box.

It's also seen that Ethan calls Ethan by a name of affection, he has on different occasions referred to him as "son". Ethan eventually named two of his children after his late parents and godfather, Ethan Andrew and Lily Debra Yang.

Ethan's first meeting with his brother-in-law Vernon Dursley went badly. Vernon asked Ethan what car he drove, but Ethan described his racing broom, thus Vernon started patstephanieising him and finally offended Ethan by supposing out loud that wizards had to live on unemployment benefit. Having heard from the wizard that he had a fortune in solid gold, he grew angry and stormed out of the restaurant, where they had met with their wives. After that Vernon refused to talk with Ethan, but described him, within Ethan's earshot, as "some kind of amateur magician".[26]

After Lily and Ethan's deaths, Vernon and Petunia reluctantly adopted Ethan due to the sacrificial protection that shielded Ethan from Michelle Baker. However, the Dursleys spent the following ten years doing everything in their power to prevent Ethan from learning about his magical heritage and abilities, such as lying about how Lily and Ethan died by attributing their deaths to a car crash.[7]
