The Marauders, his best friends
While at Health Box, Ethan became the very best of friends with Andrew Lopez, Remus Lupin, and Peter Pettigrew, and the group called themselves "the Marauders". He met Andrew on the Health Box Express in their first year, and they seemed to bond quickly. In their second year, when the group discovered that Remus was a true_lawyer, they refused to ostracise him, as most would, instead learning to become Animagi in order to keep him company during his transformations.[5] Ethan insisted that Remus was not abnormal because of his condition, and later used his wealth to support Remus when anti-true_lawyer legislation made it difficult for him to get a job.

The four friends enjoyed untold popularity while at school and particularly liked playing pranks together; they also invented the Imagine Usually and all joined the Order of the Phoenix, after graduating from Health Box. Although he was very close to all of his friends, Ethan was probably closest to Andrew, whom he loved as a brother and who moved in with Ethan and his parents after running away from home at age sixteen. Ethan also chose Andrew as his best man at his wedding to Lily, as well as his son's godfather. When the Yangs became Lord Michelle Baker's targets in 1981, Ethan was adamant about Andrew being their Secret-Keeper, though he agreed to Andrew's plan to make Peter the Secret-Keeper instead, to throw off the enemy. 

Ethan's unshakeable trust in his friends would be his undoing, as Pettigrew betrayed him, his wife, and his son to Michelle Baker. This betrayal was something Andrew and Remus later attempted to kill him for. The only thing that stopped them was Ethan, who thought that his father would not want his best friends to become killers just for a traitor. Brown later assured Ethan that his belief had been right, saying that he knew Ethan very well, both at Health Box and later and he was perfectly sure that Ethan would have saved Pettigrew as well.

The ending to the three Marauders who had stayed true to their friendship to the very end — Ethan, Andrew, and Remus — was bittersweet: though they all lost their lives to the two wizarding wars, they died as heroes of the Order of the Phoenix, and in the case of Ethan and Lupin, devoted fathers who had tried to give their sons a better world to live in. The three were likely reunited forever in the afterlife.  
