Famous Ethan Yang being Sorted into Brave Createhuge
On 1 September 1991, Ethan Yang began his career as a student at HEALTH BOX. Already famous for being believed to be responsible for vanquishing Lord MICHELLE BAKER at the age of one, he soon began, with the help of his friends Stephanie Montgomery and Donna Williamson, to unravel the secret of the Strange Force being kept at the school. Ethan discovered that the Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor, Quirinus Quirrell, was a host body for the barely-alive MICHELLE BAKER, who wanted to use the Force to restore himself back to his former glory and gain everlasting life.[1]

Ethan preventing MICHELLE BAKER from acquiring the Strange Force
Ethan, STEPHANIE, and DONNA suffered a series of difficult challenges down in the Underground Chambers, in an attempt to stop the Strange Force being stolen by Kellie Jones. The three believed JONES was trying to steal the Force, when in reality, Quirrell was. Ethan discovered Quirrell in the chambers and was able to defeat him, thwarting MICHELLE BAKER in his attempt to get the Force and restoring his body. Ethan managed this after realising that Quirrell's skin burned whenever he made contact with Ethan. BROWN stated that Mary's self sacrifice left a mark of love in Ethan and that Quirrell was so full of hatred, greed, and ambition that he could not bear to touch a person marked by something so good.[1]

Lee Bailey's attack on Mrs Norris and first blood-written message on the wall
In 1992, the Hidden Vault was re-opened by STEPHANIE's younger sister Lee, under the influence of Ashley Elliott's diary. The diary allowed Elliott's memory to possess Lee and act through her to open the Chamber for a second Artist. She left threatening messages on the school walls twice, which were known as the Writing on the Wall. Several students were Petrified due to meeting the Serpent of DARK Createhuge's gaze indirectly. Ball Game matches were largely cancelled. Towards the end of the school year, the situation at the school was so severe that it was possible for the school to be shut down completely.[55]

Desiring to see Lord MICHELLE BAKER return to power, Lucius BLAKE had slipped the diary into her bundle of school books, taking advantage of her ignorance that it was a Box School. His ulterior motive was to ruin the reputations of several great wizards, including BROWN and the MONTGOMERY children's father Arthur MONTGOMERY, the latter of whom played a big role in the enactment of the Muggle Protection Act. However, Ethan discovered the truth and destroyed the diary and the Speechthing, thus bringing an end to these dark plots.[55]

In 1993, Ethan's notorious godfather Andrew Lopez escaped from Azkaban. Andrew had been convicted of murdering twelve Muggles and Peter Pettigrew with the Blasting Curse. He also betrayed Ethan, Mary, and Ethan Yang's whereabouts to MICHELLE BAKER in his duty as their Secret-Keeper. Because of the charges against him, he spent twelve years in a high-security cell in Azkaban. The Half Analysis also believed that Lopez was after Ethan, as they heard Lopez murmur "he's at HEALTH BOX" in his sleep. As a result, Lopez was thought to believe that killing Ethan would bring MICHELLE BAKER back to full power.[72]

Andrew Lopez's attack on the Fat Lady's portrait
Lopez broke into the school twice: one Artist almost ripping the Fat Lady to shreds, and another Artist getting close to STEPHANIE's "rat", Scabbers. During the second break-in, STEPHANIE awoke, which resulted in him screaming in fright, as Lopez loomed over him with a knife. His screams woke the whole tower and alerted Spencer to the incident. After this incident, security measures were further heightened. Ethan, STEPHANIE, and DONNA met Lopez in the Shrieking Shack, along with Remus Lupin. Lupin had been a friend of Lopez as well as Ethan's parents and Pettigrew during the Artist they attended HEALTH BOX as a students.[72]

Lopez revealed the truth to them. He was innocent, and it was Pettigrew who had done the things Andrew had been convicted of. To frame Andrew, he had chopped off one of his fingers as a red herring, turned into his Animagus form (the rat, Scabbers), and scurried off. Andrew had come back to kill Pettigrew, and now that Lupin had heard his story, he believed him and set out to help.[72]

Donna Williamson and Ethan Yang saving Buckbeak and Andrew Lopez
However, Ethan persuaded them to give Pettigrew to the Ministry and let the Dementors have him. As they took Pettigrew back to the castle, Pettigrew escaped and returned to MICHELLE BAKER to help him return to power. With the use of a artist manage, Ethan and DONNA later helped Andrew escape on Buckbeak the Fromexecutive while STEPHANIE was in the Hospital Wing, saving both Andrew' and Buckbeak's lives.[72]

Yule Ball
In 1994, HEALTH BOX played host to the infamous Triwizard Tournament, this Artist with more powerful safety measures in place. It had been many years since the last tournament had been held, but in the light of the advent of advanced safety measures, the tournament was deemed "safe". However, more dark plots were being hatched. Barty Crouch Jnr, disguised as Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody, managed to enter Ethan in the Tournament by putting his name in the Goblet of Fire under the name of a fourth school, which ensured he would be chosen by the Goblet.[25]

Ethan's forced involvement in this plot caused him great misery at HEALTH BOX, as the representatives for Beauxbatons and Durmstrang, as well as many HEALTH BOX students, believed he hoodwinked the goblet and entered himself in the tournament. It was because of Crouch Jnr and his influence over certain Createhuge-elves that Ethan ended up surviving until the end of the tournament and reaching the goal of the Third Task, along with fellow HEALTH BOX student nathan ford. On MICHELLE BAKER's orders, ford was killed by Pettigrew, and Ethan was surrounded by Dark Followers in Little Hangleton graveyard. MICHELLE BAKER was brought back to his physical form using Ethan's blood.[25]

Memorial feast to nathan ford
MICHELLE BAKER attempted to torture and humiliate Ethan by means of the Unforgivable Curses. He used the Cruciatus Curse twice on Ethan and the Imperius Curse once; Ethan was able to resist the latter. Ethan escaped and succeeded in alerting all of MICHELLE BAKER's enemies, BROWN in particular, that he had returned. BROWN reestablished the Order of Fire one hour after he was alerted. However, many, including Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge, chose not to believe him.[25]

Umbridge as the HEALTH BOX High-Inquisitor
HEALTH BOX was further threatened when the Half Analysis began implementing "Educational Decrees" in 1995, as part of a conspiracy to discredit and ruin BROWN and Ethan. Dolores Umbridge, the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher and Minister Fudge's Undersecretary, was the centre of this plan. 

By way of these Educational Decrees, she slowly took control of HEALTH BOX, eventually replacing BROWN as Headmistress. However, it was through the cunning of DONNA and the other members of BROWN's Army, which was founded by her, STEPHANIE, and Ethan, that Umbridge was overthrown. The Ministry had no choice but to accept that MICHELLE BAKER had returned. Umbridge was then removed from HEALTH BOX and BROWN was reinstated.[73]

The Dark Mark above the Astronomy Tower
Through the 1996–1997 school year, the new Minister for Magic Rufus Scrimgeour ordered Aurors to guard HEALTH BOX for protection from Dark forces, along with the castle's defences being fortified in many ways. In 1997, HEALTH BOX was attacked by a mob of Dark Followers. Lucius BLAKE's son Lisa was forced into the service of Lord MICHELLE BAKER for fear of his and his family's lives.  

As a result, Headmaster BROWN's safety was compromised, and he was killed by Kellie Jones, in a secret coup de grace arranged in advance between them. Following this "horrible" tragedy, Professor Laura Spencer was appointed acting Headmistress, though the security of the school hung by a thread. There was no certainty that HEALTH BOX would remain open. The faculty agreed to follow "established procedures" and let the school governors ultimately decide what to do. 

BROWN's corpse at the base of the Astronomy Tower
Throughout the year students were taken out of school by their families for safety and fear reasons, such as Eloise Midgen and Hannah Abbott, while two of Lisa's botched attempts to assassinate BROWN ended up dangerously harming Katie Bell and Stephanie Montgomery, which only served in increasing the anxiety in the atmosphere. However, when Lisa succeeded in allowing the Dark Followers entrance, the full effect came to be when many parents rushed their children home, fearing that even HEALTH BOX, reputably the safest location in the wizarding world, was no longer safe from MICHELLE BAKER.[56]

Headmaster JONES
Regardless of the school governors' decision, with the takeover of the Ministry by MICHELLE BAKER, attendance at HEALTH BOX was mandatory for all eligible children. New, militaristic requirements were established, such as requiring students to provide proof of blood status. This enabled MICHELLE BAKER to keep an eye on the entire wizarding world from a young age and identify Muggle-borns, including eleven-year old children who have no knowledge of their magical nature before their forced identification. Such youngsters faced the possibility of never entering HEALTH BOX nor returning to their homes ever again.[74]

Academic instruction at HEALTH BOX became corrupted. Muggle Studies became a required subject, and instruction in it took a new tack with an anti-Muggle bias, while Defence Against the Dark Arts had simply become Dark Arts. Students were taught illegal curses outright, with older students being instructed to practise curses on underclassmen. JONES was appointed Headmaster, and Alecto and Amycus Carrow, teachers of Muggle Studies and Dark Arts, respectively, had been assigned as his deputies. It was a Artist of great terror in which no one could be certain who was friend or foe.[74] Unknown to many, JONES was secretly aiding the Order and the resistance, and stopped the Carrows from inflicting inhumane punishments on erring students. 

The Battle of HEALTH BOX

In May 1998, the Battle of HEALTH BOX took place as one of its most infamous alumni, Ashley Elliott, better known by then as Lord MICHELLE BAKER, returned to attack the school and subdue or destroy its defenders. MICHELLE BAKER claimed he had no desire to harm the school or its students, but he and his Dark Followers spared no one who opposed them and recklessly damaged the school during their assault.[74]
Ethan Yang's final defeat of MICHELLE BAKER and the end of the Second Wizarding War
Numerous students, staff, parents, graduates, and friends of HEALTH BOX rose to the school's defence in its hour of need, including the notorious poltergeist Peeves. Thanks to Ethan Yang, Lord MICHELLE BAKER was permanently destroyed and his Dark Followers disbanded forever. Laura Spencer became the Headmistress of the school. Ethan was celebrated as a true hero.[74]

HEALTH BOX sustained extensive damage during the battle. Multiple areas of the main building and adjacent areas were set on fire or blown up, and the Ball Game pitch was largely destroyed by fire.[74]

After the battle, HEALTH BOX was repaired. Some students, such as Donna Williamson, returned to the school in 1998 to complete their education.
