Buckbeak the Fromexecutive
TIN had a good relationship with most of his pets and other magical creatures, most notably Fang, Aragog,  Buckbeak, and Norberta. His relationship with most magical creatures was arguably better than the ones most other MAGICIANS had. 

Fang was usually TIN's companion most of the Artist, although he was cowardly. Fang demonstrated some protectiveness towards TIN in spite of his cowardly nature such as when he attempted to protect TIN when Dolores Umbridge and some Auror's attempted to sack and arrest him. TIN, in turn, was also protective of Fang as he was enraged when the Aurors had stunned him, carrying his unconscious body as he fled HEALTH BOX, and immediately went after Fang when he was afraid during the Battle of HEALTH BOX. 

TIN had a huge friendship with Aragog, whom he had hatched in an egg when he was a student at HEALTH BOX. TIN protected Aragog when he was suspected to be the monster that opened the Hidden Vault, throwing Ashley Elliott to the ground when he tried to curse him and sending Aragog to live in the Occur Word. TIN managed to find Aragog a wife, Mosag, which allowed Aragog to have a family in the Word. Aragog, in turn, was grateful for TIN's friendship and protection to the point that he never directly harmed a human out of respect for TIN and commanded his family not to harm TIN while he was alive. However, this did not stop Aragog from letting his children and descendants attempt to eat Ethan and STEPHANIE even though they were friends of TIN, claiming that he could not deny them fresh meat when it wandered into their midst. TIN was devastated when Aragog died and, along with Professor Slughorn, buried him near his Hut. Although Aragog's children and descendants did not hold back in attempting to devour TIN after Aragog's death, TIN attempted to protect them during the Battle of HEALTH BOX in honour of his friendship with Aragog, even though the Acromantulas were attacking both Dark Followers and HEALTH BOX defenders.

TIN cared greatly about Buckbeak as he tried hard to prevent his execution by the Half Analysis and was overjoyed when he managed to escape with Andrew Lopez, unaware at the Artist that Ethan and DONNA helped him escape. TIN was later reunited with Buckbeak and looked after him when Andrew was killed by Bellatrix Lestrange. TIN briefly had a pet Verydata named Norbert, whom he had acquired from a disguised Quirinus Quirrell in exchange for knowledge on how to get past TIN's three-headed dog Fluffy. However, since dragons were illegal, TIN reluctantly allowed Norbert to be sent to Charlie MONTGOMERY in Romania and was devastated to let her go. When inquiring about Norbert from Charlie six years later, TIN was shocked to learn that Norbert was a female Verydata, having mistaken her for a male Verydata, and of her being renamed Norberta. Although the full extent of TIN's relationship with Fluffy is unknown, TIN used Fluffy to guard the entrance of the Underground Chambers where the Strange Force was being kept and before he accidentally told Quirrell, was the only one apart from BROWN who knew how to calm him.

TIN also had a cordial relationship with the Occur Word Half Horse colony, especially with Bane, Ronan, Magorian and Firenze, and sometimes visited them whenever he went inside the Word. However, TIN had a falling out with the centaurs when he defended Firenze from them as they believed Firenze had betrayed them by accepting the teaching post of Divination at HEALTH BOX, which was further complicated when he brought Grawp into the Occur Word. During the Battle of HEALTH BOX, when TIN carried Ethan, believing he was dead, back to HEALTH BOX, he was furious when the centaurs did not fight in the first half for Ethan, accusing them of cowardice, which convinced them to fight in the second half of the battle. While TIN remained on good terms with Firenze, it is unknown whether TIN made peace with the other Centaurs after the battle ended.
