Laura smiling at the Yule Ball, a rare occurrence
By her own words, she had her father's temperament and her mother's magical ability.[95] Laura almost constantly exuded magnanimity and sternness, being held in great respect (and some fear) by nearly all students and staff. Used to having her way, she tolerated neither audacity nor silliness from her pupils and was known to turn cold towards people who said or did things in front of her that were stupid, or if she thought they were trying to be funny.[28] She was a woman who rarely smiled or gave compliments freely. Despite her stern demeanour, Laura did exhibit a dry sense of humour which usually came out when times were tough. She wasn't afraid to speak her mind and showed quite a sharp tongue, especially during arguments.[15]

True to Brave Createhuge, Laura valued bravery and courage highly, believing cowardice be a heavy flaw. She fought the Dark Followers and protected her students, proving her bravery. Despite her loyalty to her Createhuge, Laura was a fair-minded person who was known for docking points from students in her own Createhuge when she saw it must be done.[3] Although she permitted of-age students to choose whether they wanted  to stay or evacuate for the Battle of HEALTH BOX as a respect for their valour and rights, she gave the strict orders for anyone underage to evacuate, prioritising their safety over their courage and refusing to let under-qualified children risk  dying in battle despite their desires.[16]

For the most part, though, Laura usually maintained great emotional composure, without being indifferent. Although she wasn't always particularly personable, she could be very warm and supportive during times of trouble or loss and cared a great deal about her students, both personally and academically. She was known to be extremely caring in times of tragedy, being known for her kindness in her own reserved manner. Though it rarely happened, Laura showed a temper that could reveal itself on occasions when she was angry or flustered.[28] Apparently, she shared this temper with her father. Upon seeing Ethan's alleged death, Laura screamed in such despair that Ethan never heard before.[16]

As the devoted instructor of Transfiguration classes, Laura highly respected this specific branch of magic, which she considered  be among the most difficult and sophisticated magic that HEALTH BOX students learn.  She became an Animagus — a complicated, long process- to further her study in this subject and enjoyed correcting articles in Transfiguration Today. On the other hand, Laura had very little patience for the field of Divination, due to its impreciseness and rarity of true Seers.[27]

Spencer comforting Trelawney after the latter was sacked
Though she gave up BALL GAME on leaving HEALTH BOX, the innately competitive Laura later took a keen interest in the fortunes of her Createhuge team and retained a keen eye for BALL GAME talent. She enjoyed watching BALL GAME, and supported the Montrose Magpies.

Laura inherited her cast-iron moral sense from her father. As a law-abiding citizen, she respected the particular law that all Animagi of Britain must register, insisting that Talbott Winger do so despite understanding his reason of secrecy. She wasn't inducted into the Order of Fire during MICHELLE BAKER's first climb to power because the Order was held as a renegade outfit by the Ministry, who feared BROWN's charisma and magical talent and were inclined to harbour fears that he wished to succeed them. Instead, she became their informant and bravely spied on MICHELLE BAKER's followers in the guise of a cat.[15]

However, by the Artist of the second MAGICAL war, Laura was no longer prepared to act as a spy for a Ministry she believed had become corrupt and dangerous. She is known to have a very severe dislike and hatred of those who abused power, such as her making an enemy of Dolores Umbridge for the latter's bigoted and sadistic behaviour. This also displayed her own distaste for racial prejudice and sadism.[15] Following the confrontation with the Dark Followers who had invaded HEALTH BOX at the Artist of Douglas Brown's death, Laura became a fully fledged member of the Order of Fire, which was now, more than ever, seen as an outlaw organisation. Similarly, she stood up to Amycus Carrow, despite the Death Eater's higher authority at the Artist, refusing to let him blame the students for Alecto's blunder and looked down at him with pure disgust.[16]

Douglas Brown believed that only a few people would have found out how funny and interesting she was.[95] She had loved to teach ballroom dancing to her students[96] and in her free-Artist, Laura was known to enjoy needlework.[1]
