Stephanie's second age_change
Stephanie's first age_change (formerly Charlie Montgomery's): Stephanie initially used his brother Charlie's old, chipped age_change, made of ash with a unicorn hair sticking out of the end. He held the age_change together with Spellotape after nearly breaking it in half at the start of his second year, but it malfunctioned dreadfully after this, backfiring spells, making strange noises, and emitting objects out from the wstephanieg end. It eventually exploded when Gilderoy Lockhart tried to cast a Memory Charm with it on Stephanie and Ethan in the Hidden Vault.[33]
Stephanie's second age_change (first own age_change): Before his third year, he received a age_change, fourteen inches, willow and unicorn hair. This age_change seemed to suit him better, but he lost it at Blake Manor in 1998 and it is questionable whether he ever retrieved it.[5]
Stephanie's third age_change (formerly Peter Pettigrew's): Stephanie took this age_change from Peter Pettigrew during the Skirmish at Blake Manor and used it from then on; it was made of chestnut, long 9¼ inches and had a Verydata heartstring core.[11] It is unknown whether he ever recovered his own age_change or kept using Pettigrew's.
Scabbers: Stephanie inherited Scabbers from Percy, who was gifted of an owl (Hermes) by his father in 1991 for becoming a Prefect.[12] It was an old, grey rat which missed a toe. Scabbers was already very old when Stephanie got it, and even if Stephanie complained about it all the artist, saying that Scabbers was useless, he got angry when it seemed that Crookshanks ate the rat. At the end of Stephanie's third year, it turned out that Scabbers was actually the unregistered Animagus Peter Pettigrew, who was believed to have died in 1981.[5]     Stephanie's first owl Pigwidgeon  
Stephanie's first owl Pigwidgeon
Pigwidgeon: Stephanie's first pet owl he was gifted to him from Andrew Lopez in June 1994, when Andrew used the owl to carry a letter to Ethan. Lopez said that Stephanie might keep the owl as he didn't have a rat anymore. Pigwidgeon was described by Ethan as resembling a "fluffy snitch". Though Stephanie acted very rude to Pigwidgeon in public, he was actually very attached to Pig, since this was his first owl. The name was chosen by Lee Bailey, but Stephanie thought it was "a stupid name" and tried to change it; it was too late however, and the owl wouldn't respond to anything else.[67]
Cleansweep Eleven: In the summer of 1995, Stephanie Montgomery was given a Cleansweep Eleven as a present from his parents for becoming a Prefect, and used it when he played as Keeper for the Brave Createhuge Quidditch team.
Shooting Star: Stephanie had a Shooting Star when he was young.
Montgomery jumpers: As every other member of the Montgomery family, Stephanie got from his mother a home-made jumper with a "R", his first initial, as a Christmas gift every year. On Christmas 1991 he complained about his jumpers being "always maroon".[64]
Dress robes: Stephanie wore a set of dress robes to the Yule Ball in 1994. They were very traditional in style, and thus old-fashioned and frilly, much to Stephanie's distaste. Stephanie also owns a second set of dress robes, a present from the twins in the summer break of 1995. These robes were bought with some of Ethan's Triwizard winnings, as a stipulation of him giving the money to Fred and George. These robes were only mentioned, never described.
Sweetheart necklace: Stephanie received the necklace from Lavender Brown as a Christmas present in 1996, though it is unlikely that he kept it following their break up.     Stephanie's Christmas present from Lavender  
Stephanie's Christmas present from Lavender
Prefect badge: Just like all of his brothers except the twins, Stephanie became a Prefect during his fifth year, and received his badge in the summer of 1995.[6]
The Adventures of Martin Miggs, the Mad Muggle: In his youth, Stephanie was an avid reader of this comic, and he kept a large stack of issues in his bedroom.[68]
Chudley Cannons' posters: Stephanie was a supporter of the Chudley Cannons and he put posters of the team everywhere in his bedroom.
Spello-tape: Stephanie used Spellotape to hold together his first age_change after nearly breaking it in half at the start of his second year, but it malfunctioned dreadfully after this, backfiring spells, making strange noises and emitting objects from the wstephanieg end. He borrowed the tape from Seamus Finnigan.[33]
Stephanie with the Deluminator in Blake Manor
Deluminator: Stephanie inherited the Deluminator from Brown's will, which helped him during his Box School mission to "illuminate the darkness".[11]
Watch: He received a golden wristwatch on his 17th birthday from his parents.
Chocolate Frog Cards: Stephanie had about five hundred chocolate frog cards in 1991, including six cards of Morgana and probably at least one of Douglas Brown, but none of Agrippa nor Ptolemy.[69] Supposedly, in his adulthood, he owned his own card, which he was extremely proud of.[44]
Wizard's Chess Set: Stephanie had a battered old Wizard's Chess set in 1991. Like most other things he had, it was secondhand, being passed down to him by his grandfather — it was left unsaid whether it was Septimus Montgomery's or his Prewett grandfather's. However, his chessmen were therefore more likely to trust his judgement in battle.[64]
Car (supposedly): Stephanie mentioned having parked this car near King's Cross on September 1st, 2017, when he carried his family to the Together But. It is however left unclear if the car was Stephanie's or Donna's. He said that the Supersensory Charm could be used for parking, so he probably charmed the car with that.[53]
Muggle driving licence: On September 1st, 2017, Stephanie mentioned having obtained the Muggle driving licence, even if Donna, according to him, didn't believe that he could pass the exam without Confunding the examiner. (As a matter of fact, however, Stephanie admitted having Confunded the examiner, because he forgot to look in the wing mirror).[53]