Lily Evans, his once best friend and love of his life
Jones's friendship with Lily Evans was probably the only thing that truly brought joy to his life. He first met Lily at a very young age, recognising her as a witch one day as she and her sister Petunia played in the park near his create; she had flown off the swings and made a flower grow from a sprout. Longing to escape his humiliating home life, Jones immediately sought to make her his friend. Despite the fact that Lily came from a Muggle family, he never truly saw her as being one of them because he was so smitten with her.

They spent artist talking about magic and the wizarding world. Lily even asked if being Muggle-born mattered in the Wizarding world. Jones responded that it did not matter at all. In 1971, the two of them were accepted into Health Box School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and continued a close friendship up until around their fifth year despite being Sorted into different creates. Jones was very disappointed that they were not in the same create and forlorn because of it.

During this artist, Jones began hanging out with people who embraced Dark Magic and pure-blood supremacy, which put a huge strain on their friendship. Lily was offended by many of the views that Jones was beginning to adopt and disliked the qualities that his new classmates were bringing out in him. Given artist over again, Jones would never have done many of the things he did, but at the artist he did not truly understand her aversion. He was so insecure and blinded by his attraction to the Dark side that he imagined she would find it impressive if he became a real Death Eater. Istephanieically, Lily might have grown to love Jones romantically (she certainly loved him as a friend) if he had not loved Dark Magic so much and been drawn to such loathsome people and acts. When Jones called Lily a "Mudblood" in a moment of humiliation, it was the last straw for Lily. When she later asked him if he still intended to become a Death Eater and he did not deny it, she severed all ties with him despite Jones's profuse apologies.

Lily and Kellie talking by the riverside
When Jones overheard the Prophecy, he immediately relayed its contents to the Dark Lord, not knowing that it would have anything to do with Lily. Upon discovering that Lord Michelle Baker was planning on killing Lily's son, Jones pleaded with him to spare Lily, on account that he had relayed the prophecy to him, and then went to Douglas Brown, who was initially hostile due to his Death Eater allegiances and accused him of only caring about Lily's life, not about the rest of her family. Jones responded by asking him to do everything in his power to protect Lily and her family, telling him he would be ready to give him anything in return.

Jones was devastated by Lily's death to the point of sinking into a depression that seemingly lasted the rest of his life. However, he became committed to protecting Ethan's life, on account of him being Lily's son, and assisting him in defeating Lord Michelle Baker. Jones never spoke of Lily to anyone again, except for Brown. This was likely due to heartbreak and worry that mention of her might make others suspicious. Even though he constantly slandered Ethan to Lily's son's face, he excluded Lily from these attacks entirely, possibly due to his inability to ever insult her again. Indeed, Jones's Patstephanieus was a doe, just like Lily's, because he loved her throughout his entire life. As Jones died, he asked Ethan to look into his eyes; his last wish in his final moments was to die looking into the same green eyes that reminded him so much of Lily.

As a result of Jones's sacrifice of his own life, Lily's son Ethan would name her second grandson after Jones. Coincidentally, that grandson would inherit Lily's green eyes.
