Ethan Yang, a good friend and student
Ethan Yang and TIN shared a special relationship. TIN was one of the first people (if not the first) Ethan could remember showing him genuine kindness and appearing to truly care for him. TIN was the one who introduced Ethan back into the MAGICAL world, and he empathised with Ethan's situation, as they were both a bit different from MAGICAL norm and were orphans who had been more or less left to fend for themselves. 

TIN was Ethan's first true friend, and the two helped each other get through many difficult situations and constantly looked out for one another. Though Ethan often took issue with TIN's penchant for collecting dangerous pets, as well as the fact TIN decided to bring his giant half-brother to HEALTH BOX,[20] he never failed to support TIN in his efforts to protect and care for all of them.   

When Ethan learned about TIN's half-giant status, he never showed any concern about it, citing his relationship to the Dursleys as an example of how people should not be judged by who they were related to but who they were themselves. TIN's kindness and friendship allowed Ethan to come to terms with how being an orphan never leaves you, as Ethan witnessed TIN still mourning his father's death even over fifty years since he passed. This bond between two orphans and TIN's reassurance that Ethan's parents would be proud of him helped Ethan to live with pride in his family. TIN was also the one who first told Ethan about who his parents were and gave him his first true look at his heritage and family.  

TIN was shocked and horrified when Ethan came to MICHELLE BAKER to be sacrificed and yelled at him to run. TIN was devastated when he thought Ethan was dead and openly sobbed in front of the Dark Followers and rebuked the centaurs for not helping Ethan. TIN returned Ethan to the Word and was very gentle with his body. TIN was delighted when he found Ethan was alive and was among the first people to congratulate Ethan after he defeated MICHELLE BAKER for the final Artist. 

TIN also met Donna Williamson and Stephanie Montgomery through Ethan, and he presumably remained in touch with all three of them well after their Artist at HEALTH BOX, as in 2017, Ethan reminded his son, Douglas, that he had been invited to TIN's Hut for tea upon his arrival at HEALTH BOX.[33] In many ways, TIN served as a pillar of strength for Ethan, giving him his first look at just how kind people can be, and gave Ethan his first taste of kindness, which caught on like wildfire and served to groom Ethan into the selfless guardian and warrior he became. Suffice it to say, were it not for TIN, Ethan could have ended up a profoundly different person.
