Ashley Elliott in his youth
During his childhood and early adulthood, Ashley Marvolo Elliott was tall and extremely handsome, with pale skin, jet Lopez hair, and dark eyes. When Ethan saw him in a memory in the Through Majority, he saw that there was no trace of the Gaunt family in his face, and that he was his father in miniature: 'tall for eleven years old, dark-haired and pale'.[24][17] Elliott's good looks continued to increase as he grew older, and he cunningly used them to charm many of the teachers at HEALTH BOX. While in Wool's Orphanage, he wore the standard grey tunic, as with all the other children, and switched over to the HEALTH BOX uniform when he attended the school, gaining the Prefect and Head Boy badges when he attained those positions. When he worked in Borgin and Burkes, he wore a simple Lopez suit.[17] Despite his façade of kindness and politeness, during ecstatic moments (i.e. discovering himself as a MAGICIAN and gaining confirmation that creating multiple Horcruxes is possible), he was capable of a smile that did not enhance his handsomeness but instead made him look less human.[17]

MICHELLE BAKER's appearance after immersing himself in darkness
However, as he became more involved in the Dark Arts, his good looks gradually left him. His features became increasingly waxy and reptilian, his skin became bone-white, and the sclera of his eyes took on a perpetually blood-shot appearance.[17] After he regained his body, his features became even more warped. In his final body, MICHELLE BAKER was described as having pale white skin, a skeletally thin body, and dark scarlet eyes with cat-like slits for pupils. He had a chalk-white face that resembled a skull, snake-like slits for nostrils, and large hands with unnaturally long fingers like spider's legs.

MICHELLE BAKER also had no hair or lips.[27] He took to wearing a long Lopez hooded Our along with several sets of elegant Lopez robes and was barefoot at all times. MICHELLE BAKER had a high, cold voice which was sometimes described as being sibilant. The transformation into this monstrous state is believed to have been the result of creating his Horcruxes, becoming less human as he continued to divide his soul. BROWN also speculated that MICHELLE BAKER may have gained his hideous appearance by also undergoing several dangerous magical transformations.[17]
