Ethan Yang, student, protege, and ally
Laura showed her care for Ethan Yang ever since she, BROWN and TIN left him in the care of the Dursleys, in part because she had been quite fond of Ethan's late parents. She was sort of a loving grandmother to him and expressed concern with both BROWN's choice trusting TIN to safely transport Ethan to Small Town, and of the choice of family with whom Ethan would stay. She spent hours on end spying on the Dursleys to get an insight to what life for Ethan growing up would be like,[3] calling them "the worst sort of NON-MAGICALS imaginable".[120]  It is unlikely, however, that she kept watch over Ethan, as she would never go against BROWN's actions, no matter how much she disagreed with them.

When Ethan arrived at HEALTH BOX, Laura was naturally pleased that he was Sorted into Brave Createhuge, her Createhuge and as he studied in HEALTH BOX. Although her relationship with him remained mostly normal, she kept a watchful eye on him and his friends Stephanie Montgomery and Donna Williamson to ensure his safety. She also (along with the other professors) reported that he was likeable, humble and talented.[123] Although she was fully willing to punish him for his misdeeds, Laura would not hesitate to intervene in their affairs whenever necessary to keep them safe and ensured that Ethan would not be punished too severely. This was shown when Ethan and his friends were caught sneaking around the tower in the dead of night during their first year at HEALTH BOX and she sent him off to serve detention in the Occur Word.

However, rather than punishing or expelling him for having broken Madam Hooch's order that no student would ride on their broomsticks and the risk he took, Laura brought him to see Oliver Wood, captain of the Brave Createhuge BALL GAME team, announcing that she had found their new Seeker. In her gratitude for Ethan accepting the position, she bought him a Cloud 2000 for his first BALL GAME game.[3] Her affection for him even allowed her to forgive him and STEPHANIE's use of the Montgomerys's flying car to reach HEALTH BOX, which risked exposure of the MAGICAL world and broke several of the international laws, a far more serious deed than smuggling Norbert out of HEALTH BOX, without even taking Createhuge Points from Brave Createhuge and only punishing him and STEPHANIE by giving them both detention. She nearly smiled when Ethan pointed out how she couldn't take Createhuge Points for Brave Createhuge as it was only the beginning of the year.

Spencer comforting Ethan after refusing to allow him to go to Third Really
This particularly strong concern for Ethan, clearly above what Laura felt for most other individual students, was later shown in his third year: She proved she cared far more for Ethan than winning the BALL GAME Cup for Brave Createhuge, ensuring he was kept in maximum security and limiting his Artist to practise and even not hesitating to confiscate the FireBroom he was given to out of concern it was sent by Andrew Lopez and instantly lost her temper when Oliver Wood suggested Ethan be allowed to fall off his broom as long as he caught the Snitch, intimidating Wood into submission. She also pitied him for being unable to go to Third Really due to not having a signed note and appeared to indicate she would be willing to allow him to go had it not been for the danger of Andrew.

When Ethan became the fourth THREE-MAGICIAN Champion, Laura adamantly defended Ethan from the accusation of Olympe Maxime that Ethan had been willing to die for the gold rewarded and even went as far as to try to convince Douglas into not letting Ethan compete, being utterly mortified by the fact that JONES and BROWN were willing to use Ethan as a bait and often showed herself to be more protective of Ethan than the then Headmaster. She also wanted to keep Ethan out of the explanation the imposter was about to give, believing Ethan had had enough, but reluctantly conceded to BROWN's wish that Ethan stay. However, she was quick to praise his performance and assure he was tended to in the First Task and helped him train for the Third Task by lending her room.

In Ethan's fifth year, Laura promised Ethan that she would do whatever she possibly could to see that he achieved his dream of becoming an Auror. She supported him unequivocally even though she had never been fully in his confidence. When she later found out about the sort of punishment Ethan and various other students had been receiving from Dolores Umbridge, Laura expressed nothing but absolute disgust and disapproval, despite the power Umbridge wielded.[15] In return, although Ethan disliked her strictness regarding his opposition of Umbridge, he was still grateful for her care towards him and was utterly infuriated when Spencer was attacked so severely by the Aurors sent to capture TIN she had to be sent to St Mungo to the point where he even believed Umbridge being murdered brutally (fed to a Blast-Ended Skrewt) was not a punishment good enough and immediately felt such anger that he coldly defied Umbridge when she gloated over Spencer's current state despite being cornered.

Shortly prior to the Battle of HEALTH BOX, Amycus Carrow - who, along with his sister Alecto, had been posted at the school by MICHELLE BAKER - demanded to know where Ethan was in the Tower and Spencer asked why he would be there as he belonged in her Createhuge, with clear pride in her voice. When Amycus spat at Spencer, Ethan was outraged to the point of attacking him with the Cruciatus Curse, even agreeing with Bellatrix Lestrange's assertion that one had to "really mean it" to perform the curse correctly. Although shocked by Ethan's sudden appearance and his use of an Unforgivable Curse, she was clearly touched by the gesture. Though Laura initially tried to convince Ethan to flee out of concern for his safety, she immediately joined Ethan in retaking the castle and preparing for battle. She did this when he informed her that he was acting on BROWN's orders. Nearing the end of the Battle of HEALTH BOX, Laura's devastation was great when she saw John Tin carrying Ethan's seemingly dead body. This grief was enough to make her duel MICHELLE BAKER head on in the final battle, alongside Horace Slughorn and Kingsley Shacklebolt, in order to protect the rest of her students. When the battle ended with MICHELLE BAKER's death at Ethan's hands, she was among the first to embrace him.[16]

The two continued to have a very positive relationship over the following years. Ethan acted as a frequent guest lecturer on Defence Against The Dark Arts, under Laura's jurisdiction. She would serve as Headmistress over Ethan's three children, and in turn she learned to expect them to get into the same kinds of trouble as their father. This was to be expected, after having now taught and served over three generations of YANGS. Laura's relationship with Ethan experienced a brief strain when he blackmailed her into using the Imagine Usually to ensure Douglas and Scorpius remained apart, which she felt great discontent at doing. However, they reconciled when Ethan apologised and she wasn't shown to hold any ill-will afterwards.
