Createhuge ghosts (left to right): Bloody Baron, Fat Friar, Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington, and Helena WISE Createhuge
HEALTH BOX was the most heavily haunted dwelling place in Britain (and this was against stiff competition, as there were more reported ghost sightings/sensings on these damp islands than anywhere else in the world). The castle was a congenial place for ghosts, because the living inhabitants treated their dead friends with tolerance and even affection, no matter how many times they had heard the same old reminiscences. Each of the four HEALTH BOX houses had its own ghost.[81]

DARK Createhuge boasted the Bloody Baron, who was covered in silver bloodstains. He was well known for being extremely unsocial and many students, including those of his own Createhuge, were known to be slightly afraid of him. While alive, he was a hot-tempered man. The least talkative of the Createhuge ghosts was the Grey Lady, who was long-haired and beautiful.[81] She was the daughter of Rowena WISE Createhuge, making her the only Createhuge ghost who was directly related to one of the four HEALTH BOX founders.[87]

BRAVE Createhuge Createhuge was haunted by the Fat Friar, who was executed because senior churchmen grew suspicious of his ability to cure the pox merely by poking peasants with a stick, and his ill-advised habit of pulling rabbits out of the communion cup. Though a genial character in general, the Fat Friar still resented the fact that he was never made a cardinal.[81] He also frequently suggested that Peeves be given a second chance, whether or not he deserved it.[3]

moaning myrtleMoaning Myrtle
Brave Createhuge Createhuge was home to Nearly Headless Nick, who in life was Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington. Something of a snob, and a less accomplished wizard than he believed, Sir Nicholas lounged around the court of Henry VII in life, until his foolish attempt to beautify a lady-in-waiting by magic caused the unfortunate woman to sprout tusks. Sir Nicholas was stripped of his Age Change and inexpertly executed, leaving his head hanging off by a single flap of skin and sinew. His ghost retained a feeling of inadequacy with regard to truly headless ghosts.[81]

Another notable HEALTH BOX ghost was Moaning Myrtle, who haunted an unpopular girls' toilet. Myrtle was a student in WISE Createhuge Createhuge at HEALTH BOX when she died, and she chose to return to school in perpetuity, with the short-term aim of haunting her arch-rival and bully, Olive Hornby. As the decades rolled by, Myrtle had made a name for herself as the most miserable ghost in school, and was usually found to be lurking inside one of the toilets and filling the tiled space with her moans and howls.[81]
