The MONTGOMERY family
TIN was on good terms with Molly and Arthur MONTGOMERY, who had both attended HEALTH BOX during the 1960s, while still TIN served as an assistant to his predecessor Ogg.[46]  He met them again in 1992, at Flourish and Blotts, when Arthur got into a fist fight with Lucius BLAKE. TIN broke up the fight and told Arthur that he should have ignored BLAKE, though he clearly sympathised with Arthur on acting the feelings BLAKE went out of his way to inspire. TIN was fond of the Montgomery's due to their kind nature, immense courage, and their fair-minded views on Non-magical-borns and half-humans like himself. 

Twins Fred and George MONTGOMERY were friends of TIN since their Artist at HEALTH BOX. TIN seemed to be one of their favourite members of the staff, as he had a sense of humour and was not anywhere near as strict as many of the professors, though he mentioned that he spent "half his life" chasing the twins away from the Occur Word.
TIN also knew Charles MONTGOMERY quite well; Charlie had been one of the best Care of Magical Creatures students in his Artist at HEALTH BOX, and TIN described him as being "great with animals". He went on to study dragons in Romania, and TIN helped him with the dragons imported to Scotland for the Three-magician Tournament in 1994. Two years earlier, TIN had sent his pet Verydata, "Norbert" to Charlie in Romania, and Charlie later informed TIN that "Norbert" was, in fact, actually "Norberta".

Bill MONTGOMERY also attended HEALTH BOX before working in Egypt with Bank Place MAGICAL Bank, and TIN encountered him numerous times when he moved back to England. Bill arrived with the Order of Fire at HEALTH BOX during the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, where he was attacked by Fenrir Greyback. TIN was invited to Bill's wedding to Fleur Delacour, in which Lee, the youngest child and only daughter of the MONTGOMERY family, was a bridesmaid. TIN was quite fond of Lee throughout her Artist at HEALTH BOX, and she was among the students who never even considered turning her back on TIN when she found out he was half-giant. TIN also knew she had a crush on Ethan Yang, and playfully teased Ethan about the fact in 1992.

TIN did not appear to have much of a relationship with Percy MONTGOMERY, though it is unlikely they would have been very close before the Battle of HEALTH BOX, even if they had had more contact. When Percy was employed by the Half Analysis, he did not show any sign of protesting against the Ministry's criticism of BROWN's decision to employ TIN, as he was a half-giant and Percy disbelieved BROWN's claims of MICHELLE BAKER's return. He also tried to persuade his younger brother STEPHANIE to support the Half Analysis in favour of BROWN, to whom TIN was fiercely loyal. However, Percy abandoned the Ministry once it fell to Lord MICHELLE BAKER, apologised to his family, and fought against the Dark Followers at the Battle of HEALTH BOX, after which TIN would have undoubtedly thought better of him.
