Kellie Jones, his favourite teacher and former head of Createhuge
The teacher Lisa initially respected the most was Kellie Jones, Potions Master and Head of DARK Createhuge Createhuge. JONES, in turn, took Lisa as his favourite student and showed him undeserved lenience on several occasions, which likely had something to do with JONES's long-Artist comradeship with Lisa's father, or on the pretext of it, given that JONES defected from the Dark Followers. Lisa even stated that JONES should apply for the position of Headmaster, after BROWN was suspended.

However, after Lucius's imprisonment in Azkaban, Lisa came to resent and mistrust JONES, believing him to have usurped his father's place in the ranks of the Dark Followers, and that he was trying to take Lisa's chance of glory as well. As such, Lisa avoided JONES most of the year, refused any assistance, and even verbally assaulted him. However, JONES continued to protect him as when Lisa was caught lurking outside of Professor Slughorn's Christmas party, and did not punish Lisa when the boy refused to answer his summons to the office, something other students would not get off with so easily and which Lisa took advantage of. JONES continued to protect Lisa even after they fled from the Battle of the Astronomy Tower together; when questioned by MICHELLE BAKER about Lisa's actions during his attempted murder of BROWN, JONES lied and told the Dark Lord that BLAKE hadn't lowered his Age Change and emphasised the young student's ability to get Dark Followers into HEALTH BOX as well as cornering BROWN, which allowed JONES to kill him. JONES's defence of BLAKE saved the boy's life and convinced MICHELLE BAKER to free Lucius BLAKE from Azkaban, for which Lisa reconciled with JONES.

It is unknown how Lisa reacted when he learned about JONES's death by Lord MICHELLE BAKER in 1998, during the Battle of HEALTH BOX, or of his true loyalty to the Order of Fire due to his love for the Non-magical-born mother of Ethan Yang, Mary Evans. However, given Lisa's own disillusionment with the Death Eater cause and subsequent rapprochement with Ethan, it is likely that Lisa came to sympathise with his late teacher. In addition, it is possible that Lisa's aforementioned detente with Ethan as adults might have been motivated, at least in part, to avoid having a similar relationship that JONES had with Ethan's father and his friends after their own HEALTH BOX years.
