The Gaunts Ashley's family on his mother's side
Ashley Elliott grew up in a NON-MAGICAL orphanage, not knowing any members of his family. His mother, Merope Gaunt, died shortly after giving birth, never attempting to save herself through magical or other means. His father's feelings toward him are unknown, as he fled then-pregnant Merope after she stopped drugging him with a love potion, and didn't track down the whereabouts of their child thereafter. The two met face-to-face in 1943, when Elliott killed his father and paternal grandparents. Elliott was disgusted by his NON-MAGICAL relatives, and took on the alias 'Lord MICHELLE BAKER' partly out of a desire to be rid of his 'filthy NON-MAGICAL father's name'. Ashley Elliott Jnr viewed his father as abandoning his mother for being a witch. Whether this was due to a lack of information or Elliott's prejudice against NON-MAGICALS is unknown.

Despite the maternal side of his family being direct descendants of the great Salazar DARK Createhuge, Ashley was unimpressed when he found his deranged uncle Morfin living in squalor at the Gaunt Shack, and was not above framing Morfin for murder and stealing his maternal grandfather's prized heirloom ring. Even as a child, he showed contempt for his mother, and for the weakness of mortality, when he assumed Merope must have been a NON-MAGICAL if she had been unable to survive. Ironically, it is very possible that MICHELLE BAKER's more sociopathic and violent tendencies throughout his life could be a result of the 'vein of instability' caused by centuries of inbreeding due to the Gaunts' narcissistic attitudes towards their DARK Createhuge lineage. Later on in his life, however, Elliott showed visible, if concealed, rage when Hepzibah Smith unknowingly slandered his mother, indicating that his discovery that she was the source of his magical heritage might have led him to caring about Merope's memory at the very least. 

Considering MICHELLE BAKER's loathing towards his heritage and true name, coupled with the rather dysfunctional dynamics of the Gaunt and Elliott families, it raises questions about why Merope chose to name him after his father and maternal grandfather. One possibility is that Merope, even after the abuse she had suffered at the hands of her father and husband, still held enough affection for them to name her only son after them. Alternatively, as Merope was on her deathbed while giving birth to the younger Elliott, she was likely reflecting on her life. Considering her Gaunt childhood of abuse, poverty, and isolation, she likely had very few, if any, friends to socialise with before her marriage to the elder Ashley Elliott, leaving Marvolo and Morfin as the only men in her life, and 'Ashley' and 'Marvolo' as the few male names that she could think of.

Despite MICHELLE BAKER's detestation and disappointment for his immediate family, he used their residences for his own benefits without such locations being a reminder of how much he hated them, hiding his precious ring Box School under the Gaunt Shack and residing in the Elliott Createhuge while awaiting his revival ceremony.

The only pride MICHELLE BAKER ever took on his family was that he inherited the blood of the famous Salazar DARK Createhuge from his mother, which he consistently flaunted at every opportunity possible, proudly addressing himself as the 'Heir of Salazar DARK Createhuge', while regarding DARK Createhuge as his 'noble ancestor'.

It is unknown how MICHELLE BAKER felt about his daughter Delphini since he died while she was still a baby. However, in the alternative timeline created via a mistake caused by Scorpius and Douglas, MICHELLE BAKER had apparently put Delphini (known as the Augurey) in charge of the Ministry: Dolores Umbridge (Headmistress of HEALTH BOX in this timeline) constantly informs the Augurey with dispatches about everything that is going on in HEALTH BOX; the Augurey gives instructions to Lisa Blake (Head of Magical Law Enforcement of the Half Analysis in this timeline), e.g. how to deal with incidents involving MAGICIANS killing NON-MAGICALS and bribing the NON-MAGICAL Prime Minister with gold in such cases. Some students in HEALTH BOX openly quote the Augurey's motto that 'the future is ours to make', indicating that the Augurey was probably a famous and respected force as well as an inspiring example in the MAGICAL world of this timeline.  

It is therefore likely that had MICHELLE BAKER lived, he would have considered her an exceptionally faithful servant, something like his right-hand minion or deputy, and given her more power than he usually allowed his Dark Followers. It's notable that in this alternative timeline Delphi has her own official symbol - the bird emblazoned in a fascistic manner - that is widely used in this world, just like the Dark Mark, the official symbol of MICHELLE BAKER. In the office of Head of Magical Law Enforcement in the Ministry there are Augurey flags flying down with this symbol while there are flags with the Dark Mark in HEALTH BOX. None of the Dark Followers ever had their own individual symbols and none of them ever had individual titles or alias due to having just a collective name for their group, while Delphini was operating under her personal and unique alias 'the Augurey' in this timeline, instead of being known just as another top Death Eater.  

It was not known why he wanted a child, as he did not feel a need for love and disliked the idea of becoming emotionally attached to anyone, and in addition desired immortality. However, he likely realised that his daughter could become a talented and useful servant as Bellatrix was. It is also likely that he wished to preserve the DARK Createhuge bloodline, on account of MICHELLE BAKER being the last remaining heir of DARK Createhuge. He kept her birth a secret, most likely because it may have placed her in danger, since MICHELLE BAKER was considered the most powerful and dangerous Dark MAGICIAN of the Artist. 

Delphini was curious about her parents, and wanted to have the chance to know them. She went to great lengths to meet and save her father, even to the point of meddling with Artist to create a future where he lived, which shows she had some love for him. After she was defeated by her cousin Lisa Blake, Donna Williamson, Ethan Yang and Stephanie Montgomery, she begged for death instead of having to face the fact that she failed her father. 

It is rather ironic that Delphini held such strong affection and fascination for her father, a man who felt absolutely no love. The alternative timeline where MICHELLE BAKER ruled shows that he would have considered Delphini (known as the Augurey in that universe) a faithful servant.
