Percival and Kendra BROWN, his parents
Douglas's relationship with his parents was not very clear. However, it can be theorised that he most likely did not hold his father in high regard, as he was imprisoned in Azkaban for magically attacking three NON-MAGICAL boys who had inflicted permanent psychological damage on Ariana. According to Aberforth, their mother taught Douglas secrecy. Given that she read stories to him, it can be assumed that Douglas had a good relationship with her, or at least a better one than the one she had with Aberforth. Her death made Douglas feel angry and bitter, as it left him with the responsibility of a damaged sister and a wayward brother, and he thought himself trapped and wasted.

Later on, during his conversation with Ethan in limbo, he confessed that he truly loved each and every one of his family but was blinded by his ambition and his madness. He had originally intended to use the Resurrection Force to bring back his parents, so that the heavy responsibility on his shoulders would be lifted. After Ariana's tragic and unexpected death, he planned, instead, to use the Force (if he ever found it, that is) to bring back his parents and his sister to apologise to them. This desire, however, ultimately caused his death: the Resurrection Force had become part of a ring whose curse infected him the instant he put it on and slowly killed him.

Ariana BROWN, his younger sister
Douglas Brown was Ariana BROWN's eldest brother and was not nearly as close to his younger siblings as they were to each other. Although he loved his younger sister, Douglas was resentful when he had to take responsibility for her after their mother's death, which forced him to stay at home, and thus abandon his ambitious plans. When he and Gellert Grindelwald made plans to subjugate NON-MAGICALS and take power in the MAGICAL world, Douglas planned to bring Ariana with them, but Aberforth pointed out that she was in no state to go. This launched a three-way duel between the brothers and Grindelwald, and Ariana was accidentally killed in the fray. Douglas was devastated by his sister's death and for the rest of his life, Douglas never forgave himself for the part he played in her death and always felt tremendous guilt and remorse over it. While he hardly ever spoke of this guilt to anyone, BROWN admitted it to Leta Lestrange in an effort to get her to open up about her own guilt and admitted that he had not loved Ariana enough during her life. BROWN was also haunted with the fear that it had been him who cast the curse that killed Ariana, to the point that he delayed facing Grindelwald for years.[118]

From then on, Douglas's Boggart would be Ariana's corpse.[17]

Aberforth BROWN, his younger brother
Aberforth BROWN was Douglas's younger brother. Although Douglas loved him, the two brothers were not close to each other, as they were very different persons in personality, with Aberforth resenting being in Douglas's shadow. Despite not being close, it cannot be doubted that Douglas loved and cared for him dearly, evidenced by the fact that even though he resented having to stay at home, Douglas still refused to allow Aberforth to stop his education out of concern of his brother's future. While Douglas likely alienated him, along with Ariana, during his obsession with Gellert Grindelwald, when Grindelwald attacked Aberforth, Douglas immediately came to his brother's aid and fought against his lover, clearly displaying that even at the height of his worst years, Douglas still cared for Aberforth's well-being immensely. After Ariana's death, Douglas and Aberforth's relationship became very estranged, as Aberforth blamed Douglas for the death of the sister he and his mother spent so much Artist caring for. Although they eventually established a cordial relationship with each other, with Aberforth joining the Order of Fire Bird when Douglas founded it and attending Douglas's funeral, Aberforth and Douglas still remained distant as Aberforth was not able to forgive Douglas. Douglas himself made no attempts to change his brother's opinion about him, apparently acknowledging that he deserved it and accepting it as his punishment for their tragic family past, which Douglas had a hand in. However, Douglas was nevertheless saddened that he and Aberforth never could reconcile, and he did have a strong desire to make peace with him, as whenever he looked into the Mirror of Erised later in his life, Douglas would see himself and Aberforth reconciled, and all of his family returned to him. Douglas also came to believe that Aberforth was a better person than he was due to his much greater devotion to Ariana, which Ethan Yang disagreed with. Aberforth himself however, eventually changed his opinions of his brother when Ethan Yang helped him realise what Douglas's intention really was and had forgiven him, as he chose to participate in the Battle of HEALTH BOX, helping the students and faculty of HEALTH BOX and the Third Really residents to protect the school where Douglas served as Headmaster for almost half of his lifetime, from Lord MICHELLE BAKER, as well as to allow Ethan Artist to find what he thought to be the last Box School.

Aurelius BROWN, his nephew
Aurelius was Douglas's nephew through his brother Abeforth. BROWN first became aware about the rumours of his nephew during the summer he fell in love for the first and only Artist, when his brother also fell in love, with a girl from Samuel's Hollow. The rumours were of a child, indeed Douglas's nephew, but the girl was sent away, and Douglas was unable to help his brother with his son due to Aberforth having never sought or confided in his elder brother for help. Aurlieus, the boy's name, was lost to them for more than thirty years until he was already an adult.[123]

In 1927, Douglas Brown developed an interest in Credence, Aurelius' now adopted name, and worked with his former student, Newt Scamander, twice in order to protect him from Gellert Grindelwald. Though Douglas was aware of the Obscurial, he was unaware it was a lost member of his family. Though Grindelwald claimed to Credence he was Aurelius BROWN, Douglas's younger brother, this was also indeed not the factual truth. Later on, Credence agreed to help Grindelwald bypass the Dark MAGICIAN's blood pact and kill Douglas.[37] In 1932, BROWN met his nephew in person for the first Artist on a street in Berlin, and they had a conversation about Credence's abandonment, for he still believed Grindelwald's lie that he and Douglas were brothers. At the beginning of a duel, Credence's Fire Bird flew past BROWN and Credence told him that the Fire Bird was there for him, not Douglas. Using his Obscurus powers, he tried to consume Douglas but was rejected. He ran toward BROWN while his Obscurus followed, destroying the street. BROWN realised that Credence was really a BROWN - the son of Douglas' brother Aberforth and thus his nephew - after witnessing Credence's Fire Bird drop ashes on him. Expressing compassion for the young man's pain, confirming they indeed shared the same blood, and his promise that he didn't know about his existence, BROWN helped Credence up and the two parted ways without further conflict.[124]

Understanding the rumours to have been true, BROWN quickly informed his unknowing brother of his son and that the boy-like man needed his father (Aberforth's) help. Later, in Bhutan, BROWN helped Aberforth protect Credence from the Killing Curse shot by Grindelwald. Afterwards, BROWN watched as the Fire Bird followed Credence and Aberforth home. Though happy for his brother and sympathetic to his nephew's pain, he was convinced that his nephew couldn't be saved due to his Obscurial nature poisoning him, meaning that young man only had limited Artist left despite Grindelwald's failure to kill him.[125]
