Remus Lupin
TIN would have known Remus Lupin for about as long as he knew the YANGS and Andrew Lopez, though they did not appear to be particularly close until 1993 when Lupin was appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, and they became co-workers. Both TIN and Lupin knew what it was like to be within the MAGICAL community, yet still considered outsiders and face its prejudices, as Lupin was a Truelawyer and TIN was a half-giant.
In 1995, they both joined the re-instated Order of Fire and worked together throughout the Second MAGICAL War to protect Ethan Yang and bring about the end of Lord MICHELLE BAKER.

Laura Spencer
TIN greatly respected Laura Spencer, the Transfiguration professor and Head of Brave Createhuge Createhuge. They attended HEALTH BOX around the same Artist (TIN having been expelled a few years before she started) and they later became members of the HEALTH BOX staff. As one of the most strict professors at HEALTH BOX, Spencer sometimes disapproved of TIN's lack of refined behaviour, especially during the Sorting Ceremony. However, they were close friends and fellow members of the Order of Fire in both wars.  

In 1995, when Dolores Umbridge brought several Ministry officials to either have TIN forcibly removed from the school grounds, arrested, or both, Spencer immediately came to TIN's defence; she took four simultaneous stunners straight to her chest as she rushed to TIN's aid, and was incapacitated for some Artist at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. TIN was disgusted and outraged when Spencer got stunned to the point that he attacked the Ministry officials who injured her, furiously denouncing them as cowards.  

After Douglas Brown's death, Spencer stated that she appreciated TIN's opinion very much, as BROWN had, and took it into consideration when determining the best Artist to close the school. Spencer later became Headmistress of Health Box School of Witchcraft and Magic, where TIN was still living by 2017. Also, Spencer showed no disdain when TIN drunkenly kissed her on the cheek at a HEALTH BOX Christmas celebration. On the contrary, she began to giggle and blushed. Spencer was touched by TIN's defence of wanting to bury their mentor, Douglas Brown on HEALTH BOX's grounds, citing that no other Headmaster had given more to the school, and as such defended his stance on the matter. 

Kellie Jones
TIN always stoutly defended Kellie Jones against Ethan's doubts and allegations, on the basis that Douglas Brown trusted JONES completely. When JONES killed BROWN, TIN initially disbelieved the fact and told Ethan he must be mistaken but was later furious to learn that JONES had indeed killed the late Headmaster. TIN openly opposed JONES when he became the Headmaster of HEALTH BOX by holding a Support Ethan Yang party (unaware JONES was secretly still on their side), an act which almost resulted in his arrest and forced him to go into hiding until the final battle. Before TIN fled, JONES put students in detentions with TIN, ensuring that they were protected from the harsher and torturous punishments from the Carrows. However, TIN eventually learned of JONES's true loyalties during the final confrontation of the Battle of HEALTH BOX.

TIN and victor adams regularly found themselves at odds; adams thought that TIN was "an oaf," and even told Mrs Norris, his cat, to keep an eye on the Gateskeeper. adams did not seem to care or even really acknowledge when TIN became a professor, possibly because he was a half-giant, and TIN, for his part, called adams a "sneakin' Squib", when the latter insulted him.

The Half Horse Firenze
TIN had been very familiar with Divination Professor Firenze, long before he began working at HEALTH BOX, and when the Half Horse's herd turned on him for entering into "the servitude of a human" by accepting the position at HEALTH BOX as a favour to Headmaster BROWN, it was TIN who saved him from being killed at their hands. Of all the centaurs Firenze seemed to be the most active in working against Lord MICHELLE BAKER and was not above allowing Ethan Yang to ride on his back in the process of saving Ethan's life — a taboo among centaurs — both of which elicited great respect and gratitude from both Ethan and TIN.

TIN also seemed to be on good terms with Horace Slughorn, the Potions master in 1996. It is possible that Slughorn was one of TIN's teachers at HEALTH BOX, but they later became co-workers. Slughorn attended Aragog's funeral and comforted TIN, and while this was mostly because he wanted to extract some of Aragog's valuable venom, TIN was touched nonetheless, and the two enjoyed a drunken salute to the late Acromantula.

TIN initially held Quirinus Quirrell in high regard, considering him a very talented and clever MAGICIAN, and initially seemed to have a good relationship with him, especially when he introduced Quirrell to Ethan in the Leaky Cauldron. However, due to his loyalty to MICHELLE BAKER, a disguised Quirrell later took advantage of TIN's love for magical creatures and manipulated a drunken TIN into revealing the secret of getting past Fluffy in exchange for a Verydata egg. TIN was later horrified and guilt-ridden when he learnt of Quirrell's true nature after his death, calling him an "evil git" and blaming himself for Ethan's injuries during his encounter with Quirrell and MICHELLE BAKER. 

TIN had a mixed relationship with Wilhelmina Grubbly-Plank as while she worked as a substitute for TIN in Care for Magical Creatures and his gamekeeping duties when TIN was absent or had a mission to do, he slightly envied her teaching skills, which made other students (including Ethan, STEPHANIE and DONNA) consider her a superior teacher to him for Care of Magical Creatures. This also made him accept Ethan, STEPHANIE and DONNA's untrue claims of Grubby-Plank being a "terrible teacher" when they attempted to reassure him that they still cared for him despite not taking the subject for their sixth year. Grubbly-Plank on the other hand seemed to respect TIN for his skills and abilities despite the students considering her a better teacher than him, as she complimented TIN's training of the school's Thestrals and also kept silent about his mission to recruit the giants when Ethan inquired her about his whereabouts, understanding the importance of his classified mission. 

TIN disliked Gilderoy Lockhart, as did the other teachers, due to him being an annoyingly obnoxious and an incompetent teacher. TIN did not read any of Lockhart's books, rejected his ideas of Ethan trying to hog the spotlight, and openly criticised him, something that he would normally not do to a teacher.

Dolores Umbridge
The professor with whom TIN had the most difficult and antagonistic relationship was, by far, Dolores Umbridge, who was a pure-blood supremacist with a particular dislike for what she called "half-breeds." Throughout the 1995–1996 school year, she made TIN's life miserable with her disruptive evaluations of his teaching (part of her role as HEALTH BOX High Inquisitor, during which she was unabashedly condescending and critical.) 

When a student released two Nifflers in her office, following Headmaster BROWN's departure from the school, she blamed TIN, although he had a rock solid alibi. She later brought Ministry officials to TIN's Hut in the middle of the night, either to arrest or forcibly remove him from the premises, though TIN was able to resist with the help of Laura Spencer and go on the run. 

TIN was disgusted by Umbridge's and the officials attack on Spencer, attacking the Ministry officials in retaliation, although he refrained from attacking Umbridge in order to escape from HEALTH BOX. Following the Skirmish in the Occur Word, Umbridge was eventually suspended from HEALTH BOX in 1996 and TIN was reinstated as a teacher. She was also imprisoned in Azkaban two years later for her crimes against Non-magical-borns because of her actions as Head of the NON-MAGICAL-Born Registration Commission.
