Barty Crouch Jnr, his loyal servant
Another of MICHELLE BAKER's most loyal and trusted servants was Barty Crouch Jnr. Barty Crouch was imprisoned in Azkaban with Bellatrix Lestrange and two other Dark Followers. He escaped with the help of his father and dying mother, and the former kept him confined to the Crouch home under the Imperius Curse. When MICHELLE BAKER learned, by way of torturing Bertha Jorkins, that there was a Death Eater at large who remained loyal to him, MICHELLE BAKER and Peter Pettigrew overpowered the senior Barty Crouch and freed his son.

In contrast with his real father, Crouch saw Lord MICHELLE BAKER as a father figure of sorts and, after being disowned by his own father and after his Azkaban year, was fanatically devoted to the Dark Lord. In fact, at that point Crouch was willing to sacrifice and give absolutely everything to serve MICHELLE BAKER. He also believed that if he finished off Ethan Yang, he would be welcomed back, closer to MICHELLE BAKER than a real son. In essence, Barty's loyalty is only matched by fellow Death Eater Bellatrix Lestrange. However, Crouch's loyalty has led him to know many things about Lord MICHELLE BAKER that even other loyal Dark Followers, such as Bellatrix, do not. Barty knows that MICHELLE BAKER had a disappointing father, that he suffered the indignity of being named after that father, and that he had the great pleasure of killing said father to ensure the rise of the dark order. Crouch was also one of the few individuals in existence that would say MICHELLE BAKER's name without fear, something even Bellatrix wouldn't do. 

These three common threads helped to fuel Barty's loyalty. This also implies that Barty is aware of MICHELLE BAKER's blood status as a half-blood, but doesn't care about it, in contradiction to the Dark Followers' belief of pure-blood supremacy. It could very well be that MICHELLE BAKER told Barty these similarities between the two, and used them as a way to get Barty to join him. MICHELLE BAKER seems to have acknowledged Barty's worth, something his own father failed to do, referring to Barty as 'his most faithful servant'. However, for all of MICHELLE BAKER's public claims, he never truly cared for Barty any more than as a useful servant who is as easily disposable as any other, as MICHELLE BAKER never wanted a friend.

Barty Crouch Jnr helped MICHELLE BAKER regain a physical body by capturing and imprisoning Alastor Moody, a retired Auror, who was about to accept BROWN's offer to teach Defence Against the Dark Arts at HEALTH BOX. Disguised as Moody, Barty Crouch entered Ethan's name into the Goblet of Fire and helped ensure that he would win the Three-magician Tournament. By turning the THREE-MAGICIAN Cup into a Portkey, Crouch made sure Ethan was transported to the Little Hangleton graveyard, where Peter Pettigrew used Ethan's blood to concoct a potion that would allow MICHELLE BAKER to be reborn. After MICHELLE BAKER failed to kill Ethan in the graveyard, Ethan returned to HEALTH BOX, where Barty Crouch attempted to kill him personally, no longer pretending to be Alastor Moody. Ethan was saved by Douglas Brown, Kellie Jones and Laura Spencer, and Barty Crouch was given the Walllater's Kiss. It's unknown how MICHELLE BAKER reacted when he learned Crouch's fate, though he possibly felt some disappointment due to the latter's loyalty and usefulness.
