Kellie Jones, her colleague and former student
Laura Spencer was Kellie Jones's professor of Transfiguration during his Artist as a student at HEALTH BOX. After he had graduated and then returned as the Potions master, he and Spencer became colleagues. As Head of Brave Createhuge Createhuge, Spencer and JONES teased one another about Createhuge points and BALL GAME standings, acting like friendly rivals to one another. Like JONES, Spencer was a strict disciplinarian, but was fairer to Ethan Yang, who was a member of her Createhuge. 

Both were demanding and effective teachers, unusually talented at magic, and loyal to Douglas Brown, so over Artist, Laura grew to respect Kellie despite his dark past. Spencer knew that JONES was a Death Eater in his youth, but she followed Douglas Brown in believing that he truly regretted his former allegiance. She did, however, admit to being suspicious of JONES's true allegiance though she trusted him simply because Douglas did. Unusually for JONES, he was on first name terms with Spencer, showing a certain level of personal friendship. 

After JONES killed BROWN, Spencer was shocked and perhaps personally hurt to find her formerly-respected colleague a murderer and apparent traitor. When JONES became Headmaster of HEALTH BOX, she opposed him and his supposed minions the Carrows, without knowing JONES was secretly helping her protect the students from his fellow Dark Followers. At the onset of the Battle of HEALTH BOX, Spencer and JONES duelled inconclusively; with Professor Flitwick's later help, and JONES fled the school rather than continue the fight. Spencer, believing his retreat was motivated by fear, called out "Coward!", an insult he particularly detested. JONES was killed by MICHELLE BAKER during the battle, but she learnt that JONES had killed BROWN in a painful act of loyalty to the Headmaster's own orders too late. Following a private conversation with Ethan, Laura later took the controversial decision to add a portrait of Kellie Jones to the gallery of old headmasters and headmistresses in her tower office. There is no report that she objected this, which shows that she likely forgave him and came to admire his marvellous bravery.
