Some of JONES's students
JONES was not popular among the majority of the students at HEALTH BOX. He was quite strict and had high standards. He refused to allow any students into his N.E.W.T.-level Potions classes unless they achieved an "O" grade on their O.W.L. exam for the subject (many other HEALTH BOX teachers would still accept the next-best grade, "E", for their advanced classes). Despite N.E.W.T.s not beginning until the sixth-year, it was JONES's policy to grade his fifth-year students by the N.E.W.T. scale. At the beginning of the 1995-1996 school year, he warned his fifth-year students that he expected everyone to make some sort of passing grade on their O.W.L. exams, even if they were not intending to try for his N.E.W.T. class. Anyone who made a poor grade would deal with his "displeasure".

In addition to being strict, he was also not always fair. His having been bullied so much as a child may have fuelled his oppressiveness as a teacher. During Ethan Yang's years at the school, JONES particularly enjoyed taking points from Ethan's Createhuge, Brave Createhuge. He generally favoured the students in his own Createhuge, DARK Createhuge, including Lisa Blake. However, he was still irritated if they did not live up to his expectations and would punish them too. On at least one occasion, he gave Crabbe and Lewis detention because they had failed their O.W.L. exam for Defence Against the Dark Arts.

He also had no qualms punishing Merula Snyde for attempting to frame Jacob's sibling despite her being a DARK Createhuge and seems to dislike her for being perhaps the most atrocious liar and blamer among DARK HOUSES. The students of his Createhuge generally regarded him with respect and pride, even cheering loudly when he effortlessly defeated Lockhart with one spell. However, becoming the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher made JONES fairer (if only slightly) as he lowered his standards to allow more students to enter advanced studies, and he taught the lectures with more passion that intrigued his students' interests.

Although he disliked most students, a feeling that is quite mutual, he was not truly evil and did feel quite a lot of concern for their safety and well-being. After Rowan Khanna's tragic murder at the hands of Patricia Rakepick rendered the student body devastated and mournful during the 1989–1990 school year, JONES proceeded to teach his sixth years how to concoct the Dreamless Sleep Potion in Potions class, due in part to many of his students suffering from sleep-deprived nights following Khanna's death. He was also noted to be particularly patient by Jacob's sibling during that specific Potions class, sympathising with the grief his class felt and patiently urging them to focus on his lesson.[111]

In 1993, when Professor Spencer informed the staff that a student had been captured by the monster from the Hidden Vault, JONES displayed a hint of genuine concern by gripping the back of a chair very hard.[85] He also did everything he could to protect the students from MICHELLE BAKER's control of HEALTH BOX, while Alecto and Amycus Carrow were appointed at the school, further showing he did care for his students even if he rarely showed it.[7]
