All students at HEALTH BOX were required to complete a set of examinations to get into the next year of schooling. There was one exam for each subject. In fifth year, instead of end of the year exams, students sat their O.W.L.s (Ordinary Wizarding Levels); the score they achieved on these was what allowed them to progress to N.E.W.T.-level. In order to progress to N.E.W.T., a student had to score either an 'Outstanding' or an 'Exceeds Expectations' on their O.W.L.[73]

End of the year potions exam
The Charms exam consisted of attributing animation to an otherwise inanimate object. In 1992, the students had to make a pineapple dance across Filius Flitwick's desk.[1]

The Transfiguration exam consisted of transfiguring a being into an object. In 1992, the students had to turn a mouse into a snuff box. Extra points were given for how pretty the snuffbox was, while points were taken off if it still had whiskers.[1]

The Potions exam consisted of brewing a potion from memory. In 1992, and in keeping with Kellie Jones's unpleasant sense of humour, the students had to produce a Forgetfulness Potion.[1]

In the 1992 History of Magic exam, the test lasted for one hour and the students were required to answer questions about the invention of the Self-Stirring Cauldron by Gaspard Shingleton.[1]

These exams were not set in place due to BROWN's decision to cancel them due to the events in the Hidden Vault that year.[55]

The Charms exam required students to perform the Cheering Charm, Freezing Spell,[126] and others. A separate room stood at the ready, if a student overdid their Cheering Charm.[72]

The Transfiguration exam was said to contain difficult tasks, as when finished students emerged "limp and ashen-faced." The exam included turning a teapot into a tortoise. Some students' tortoises still had tails, could breathe steam, and had willow-patterned shells.[72]

The Potions exam was to brew a Confusing Concoction. Points were taken off if students could not get their batch to thicken, as was required.[72]

The History of Magic exam may have included questions on Witch Hunts, as students were required to complete homework on the subject.[72]

The Defence Against the Dark Arts exam consisted of an obstacle course. It contained dark creatures, which included wading across a deep paddling pool containing a Grindylow, a series of potholes full of Red Caps, squishing your way across a patch of marsh while ignoring the misleading directions of a Hinkypunk, then climbing into an old trunk in order to battle a Boggart.[72]

The Divination exam included looking into a crystal ball and being able to distinguish what could be seen. Both Ethan Yang and Stephanie Montgomery chose to simply make something up. Ethan's prediction, of a Fromexecutive flying away, turned out to be accurate. As nobody was mentioned as having failed the exam despite several students admitting they were just making things up, it is likely that anyone who at least pretended to see something would have been given a pass.[72]

The History of Magic exam involved testing the students on their knowledge of Decadeforward rebellions.[25]
