Dolores Umbridge, her enemy and former colleague
Laura disliked Dolores Umbridge right from the beginning when the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher began to invade HEALTH BOX with her HEALTH BOX High Inquisitor position and did everything she could in her power to circumvent Umbridge's authority without risking the loss of her job. She was the colleague whom she had more violently clashed with than any other colleague in her long and varied career. During Umbridge's inspections of Spencer's class, Laura tried for the most part to ignore Umbridge. This was difficult due to Umbridge's constant interruptions by means Umbridge's soft, girlish cough of "Hem hem". When forced to acknowledge Umbridge's presence, Spencer treated her with a cold and harsh demeanour.[15]

Despite Umbridge having the power to put Laura on probation or even sack her, Laura was not afraid to show her disgust and hatred of Umbridge to the woman's face. Despite this, she understood that Umbridge had a lot of power and that she was reporting directly to Cornelius Fudge, and so Laura once warned Ethan Yang to tread carefully around Umbridge. Even so, Laura vehemently vouched for Ethan during their Career Advice session, claiming that she would coach him nightly if she had to in order to realise his dream of becoming an Auror, after Umbridge's furious protests that Ethan would never become one. After Umbridge fired Sybill Trelawney from her post as Divination teacher, Laura even put aside her mild dislike of Sybill to focus even more on her hatred of Umbridge, indirectly stating that the latter's evaluation is incompetent and will not be taken into consideration.[15]

Dolores Umbridge arguing with Laura Spencer
Even when Dolores took over HEALTH BOX, replacing Douglas Brown as Head of the school, Laura continued to help undermine Umbridge's reign, preferring to watch her struggle with the chaos that was being caused by the students and Peeves (and sometimes even helping with it). When Laura was attacked and sent to St Mungo's, Dolores was pleased that she at last had complete control of HEALTH BOX. After she returned to HEALTH BOX, Laura did nothing to curb the students' enthusiasm when Peeves chased Dolores from HEALTH BOX, only lamenting that she could not watch with them because the poltergeist had taken her walking stick to hit Dolores with as he followed her from the school.[15] Umbridge returned to the Ministry in a high-ranking position and interrogated Non-magical-borns, capturing them and imprisoning them to Azkaban. However, after the Second MAGICAL War, Umbridge was captured by Aurors and sent to Azkaban herself, for the rest of her life.

Despite their hatred for each other, both Spencer and Umbridge share the same Patronus: a cat, although Spencer's resembled her Animagus form.
