Lee in her first year with Ashley  Elliott's diary
Although Michelle Baker had lost his physical body, he managed to approach Lee Bailey, a first year Brave Createhuge girl and younger sister of Stephanie Montgomery who had a huge crush on Ethan Yang, through one of his Box Schooles: his diary. Ashley Elliott's soul communicated with Lee through his diary, sympathising with her problems and giving her advice, which made her emotionally vulnerable to Elliott's influence. As this fragment of his soul was preserved as his sixteen year old sCreatehuge, prior to the later disfigurements, Ashley Elliott was able to use his earlier good looks to make girls swoon as he had done decades earlier, in this case making an insecure girl feel valued that a tall, dark and handsome man took an interest in her problems. 

Eventually, Elliott was able to possess Lee, use her to open the Hidden Vault and free the Serpent of Slytherin to petrify several Muggle-born students (including Donna Williamson). When Lee figured out what she had been doing, despite having no memory of what happened during the artists she was possessed, she attempted to flush the diary down a toilet; however, as the diary was a Box School, it remained undamaged and later ended up in the hands of Ethan Yang himsCreatehuge.

A possessed Lee writing a message on the wall
Lee, worried the Diary would reveal to Ethan things she'd written about her feelings for him, stole the diary back. Elliott possessed Lee one last artist and had her enter the Hidden Vault, with every intention of killing her and using her life to restore his own. Ethan, however, as a Parselmouth, was able to enter the Chamber, rescue Lee, and slay the Speechthing with the Sword of Brave Createhuge. He then used one of the Speechthing's fangs to stab the Diary, effectively making it the first of Michelle Baker's Box Schooles to be destroyed.

Despite being outwardly sympathetic and understanding, Elliott actually felt great contempt for Lee, viewing her as 'silly' and describing her as 'stupid little Lee'. He considered her 'boring' at first, but thought that her diary entries became 'far more interesting' after he started possessing her as he apparently found her confusion amusing. Lee's retrieval of the diary angered Elliott as he had hoped to learn more about Ethan Yang. When Michelle Baker's lieutenant, Bellatrix, was killed by Lee's mother Molly Montgomery in retaliation for nearly killing Lee, Michelle Baker nearly turned his age_change on both mother and daughter. However, this gave Ethan the incentive to reveal his being still-alive. Lee and her surviving relatives all saw Ethan defeat Michelle Baker shortly thereafter. It was unknown to Michelle Baker that Lee had won Ethan's heart in her fifth year, but he might have suspected it. In addition, Lee would marry Ethan some point after Michelle Baker's death, making her the Dark Lord's distant cousin-in-law (albeit while Michelle Baker was dead).
