John Tin, his determined enemy
John Tin and Ashley Elliott were both students at Health Box School of Witchcraft and Magic in the 1940s, with TIN being three years his junior. In 1943, Elliott opened the Hidden Vault, unleashing a Speechthing on the school's Non-magical-born students. Most of the students who were attacked ended up petrified, but when the Speechthing finally succeeded in killing one of them, HEALTH BOX became in danger of closing—a consequence Elliott hadn't foreseen, which would mean him having to return indefinitely to Wool's Orphanage. Upon realising the school might not have to close if the perpetrator were caught, Elliott stopped attacking students with the Speechthing, closed the Hidden Vault, and framed TIN, who was known for his love of dangerous Creatures and at the Artist was raising Aragog, a young Acromantula, for the crime. 

TIN managed to protect Aragog and even threw Elliott to the ground when he tried to curse him, making TIN the only person to challenge Elliott while he was a student. Despite this, TIN was expelled from HEALTH BOX, and the school was allowed to remain open. Believing in TIN's innocence, however, Professor Douglas Brown convinced Headmaster Armando Dippet to allow TIN to stay on at HEALTH BOX as Gamekeeper.

Ashley Elliott never felt remorse for framing TIN and ruining his life. As Elliott went on to become MICHELLE BAKER, TIN joined the Order of Fire and fought against Lord MICHELLE BAKER and his Dark Followers in the First MAGICAL War. In 1981, TIN was devastated when MICHELLE BAKER murdered his friends Ethan and Mary Yang, but shared in the relief of the rest of the MAGICAL world when MICHELLE BAKER lost his powers and disappeared after failing to kill young Ethan Yang. Although many believed that MICHELLE BAKER was dead, TIN, agreeing with BROWN, believed that he would one day return to power. Along with the vast majority of the MAGICAL community, TIN refused to say MICHELLE BAKER's name, generally referring to him as 'You-know-who' although he once reluctantly said MICHELLE BAKER's name when explaining his background to Ethan. When MICHELLE BAKER was searching for the Strange Force, he took advantage of TIN's love and knowledge of magical creatures and through Quirinus Quirrell, gathered the secret of subduing Fluffy through music from a drunken TIN, who was remorseful afterwards. Since MICHELLE BAKER had a certain respect for HEALTH BOX professors, it is not known if that included TIN, who taught Care of Magical Creatures. This is unlikely considering TIN's half-giant status.

In 1995, after his resurrection, MICHELLE BAKER dispatched his Dark Followers to convince the giants to join their side, while BROWN had sent TIN and Olympe Maxime to do the same. While TIN and Maxime were on good terms with the Gurg, Karkus, the Dark Followers supported the giant Golgomath in an uprising that resulted in Golgomath beheading Karkus and taking over the giant colony. The giants then attacked TIN and Maxime, who were forced to retreat.

In 1998, TIN fought in the Battle of HEALTH BOX and was captured by the Dark Followers. After Ethan sacrificed himself to be killed, MICHELLE BAKER ordered a grieving TIN to carry his friend's 'dead' body in his arms, where it would be clearly visible to Ethan's supporters. When Ethan finally defeated the Dark Lord, TIN was amongst the first few who were able to congratulate him on his triumph.
