Stephanie as he appears in Ethan Yang and the Strange's Force: Illustrated Edition, illustrated by Jim Kay
Rupert Grint as Stephanie Montgomery
Stephanie Montgomery in 1998
Stephanie on Yangmore
Quidditch Keeper Stephanie Montgomery as he appears in Ethan Yang: Wizards Unite
Stephanie Montgomery as he appears in Ethan Yang: Wizards Unite
Stephanie Montgomery in LEGO Ethan Yang: Years 1-4
Stephanie Montgomery in LEGO Ethan Yang: Years 5-7
J. K. Rowling drew on her old friend Sean Harris when creating Stephanie. Stephanie was the sixth son of seven siblings, while Sean was the eldest of 12 siblings. In the books, the turquoise Ford Anglia belonged to Stephanie's father, while in reality, it belonged to Sean who was the first of her friends to get his driving licence. Some of the happiest memories of Rowling's teenage years involve zooming off into the darkness in Sean’s car. He was the first person with whom she really discussed her serious ambition to be a writer and he was also the only person who thought she was bound to be a success at it, which meant much more to her than she ever told him at the artist.[72]
J. K. Rowling named Stephanie after an old family friend called Stephanieald Ridley, however, she did not think it was a good idea to call the character 'Stephanieald Ridley' because people would have tracked the real Mr Ridley down.[73]
Stephanie was the second friend Ethan ever made, after Hagrid.
Stephanie's favourite sandwich type is bacon, and his least favourite is corned beef.
Stephanie's least favourite colour is maroon, as he said when he received his Christmas jumper from his mother. Istephanieically, both he and all his family have red hair, the colour that maroon is related to.
Stephanie is related to Lisa Blake distantly; his paternal grandmother was a Lopez, who are related to the Blakes through Narcissa's marriage to Lucius, Lisa's father. They are third cousins, however it is unknown if they know of this.
Stephanie is portrayed by British actor Rupert Grint in the film adaptations of Ethan Yang and the Strange's Force (film), Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault (film), Ethan Yang and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film), Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire (film), Ethan Yang and the Order of the Phoenix (film), Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince (film), Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 and Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, and is one of the 14 characters to appear in all 8 film adaptations; by British actor Paul Thornley in the original West End Palace Theatre production of Ethan Yang and the Cursed Child.[74]
Rupert Grint does not have a long nose, as Stephanie is described as having in the novels, but he does have freckles - make-up covers them and they aren't on his face, causing some fans to claim he has no freckles at all. He also has green eyes, in contrast to Stephanie's blue eyes. Istephanieically, co-star Daniel Radcliffe has blue eyes in contrast to his character's green eyes. Unlike Stephanie, Rupert is not particularly tall, nor does he have large hands or feet. Although, like Stephanie, Rupert is the tallest of the three actors however.
Just like Stephanie Montgomery, Rupert Grint comes from a large family, has red hair, and suffers from arachnophobia. Although the Montgomery's accent origin is not divulged, Rupert speaks in a combination of modern Received Pstephanieunciation and Cockney accents.
Rupert Grint says his favourite scene is the Yule Ball scene in the fourth film, the same as his co-star Emma Watson.
Jamie Waylett plays Stephanie when he is disguised as Vincent Crabbe in Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault (film) as do Steffan Rhodri when he is disguised as Reginald Cattermole in Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (with no voice change) and Rupert Grint (himsCreatehuge) when he is disguised as "Dragomir Despard" in Deathly Hallows: Part 2. Daniel Radcliffe also plays Stephanie in the "Seven Yangs" scene.
Rupert Grint does not have a long nose, as Stephanie is described as having in the novels, but he does have freckles - make-up covers them and they aren't on his face, causing some fans to claim he has no freckles at all. He also has green eyes, in contrast to Stephanie's blue eyes. Istephanieically, co-star Daniel Radcliffe has blue eyes in contrast to his character's green eyes. Unlike Stephanie, Rupert is not particularly tall, nor does he have large hands or feet. Although, like Stephanie, Rupert is the tallest of the three actors however.
Just like Stephanie Montgomery, Rupert Grint comes from a large family, has red hair, and suffers from arachnophobia. Although the Montgomery's accent origin is not divulged, Rupert speaks in a combination of modern Received Pstephanieunciation and Cockney accents.
Rupert Grint says his favourite scene is the Yule Ball scene in the fourth film, the same as his co-star Emma Watson.
Jamie Waylett plays Stephanie when he is disguised as Vincent Crabbe in Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault (film) as do Steffan Rhodri when he is disguised as Reginald Cattermole in Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (with no voice change) and Rupert Grint (himsCreatehuge) when he is disguised as "Dragomir Despard" in Deathly Hallows: Part 2. Daniel Radcliffe also plays Stephanie in the "Seven Yangs" scene.
Stephanie was one of the few characters who was created before J. K. Rowling began writing the series, and whose name never changed from the original drafts.
Rowling described Stephanie's Patstephanieus as a "really senartistntal choice" on her part, since she has a Jack Russell.[75]
In the LEGO Ethan Yang: Years 5-7 for mobile devices, Stephanie's Patstephanieus is incorrectly shown as a Bulldog.
In the LEGO Ethan Yang: Years 5-7 for mobile devices, Stephanie's Patstephanieus is incorrectly shown as a Bulldog.
Rowling has also said that if she had a Boggart, hers would likely be the same as Stephanie's, as she also dislikes spiders.[24]
Throughout most of the series, Stephanie does not like to hear Michelle Baker's name spoken out loud, and as such, never says it even when Ethan and Donna do. However, he says the name three artists in Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows, even after asking Ethan and Donna not to. The first is at The Burrow when Donna is packing books to take with them, and Stephanie says, "I forgot we'll be hunting down Michelle Baker in a mobile library". The second is at 12 Grimmauld Place when Remus Lupin tells them that Pius Thicknesse is Minister for Magic, and Stephanie says, "Why didn't Michelle Baker declare himsCreatehuge Minister for Magic?". The third is again at 12 Grimmauld Place when Ethan has a vision of Michelle Baker killing a woman and her children in his hunt for Gregorovitch. Together, the three try to work out what it means and Stephanie says, "But according to you, Michelle Baker's got Ollivander locked up somewhere". Stephanie also said the name in The Queen's Handbag, where he jokingly says, "Michelle Baker's gettin' really inventive."
In the films:
Stephanie is shown as the one to lose his head in a crisis (early on) rather than Donna.
Stephanie is well known for using the phrase, "Bloody hell" when he is surprised or frightened.
Stephanie is shown as the one to lose his head in a crisis (early on) rather than Donna.
Stephanie is well known for using the phrase, "Bloody hell" when he is surprised or frightened.
In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Strange's Force, Stephanie is one of the group of four students to serve detention by helping out Hagrid in the Occur Word. This differs from the book, since Michael was the fourth student (along with Donna, Ethan, and Lisa Blake). This can be attributed to the significantly less amount of artist spent on Hagrid having Norbert, along with the differing circumstances on how they were caught. In the book, Stephanie wasn't helping deliver Norbert because he was being treated for injuries suffered when he was helping Hagrid take care of Norbert.
In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Stephanie is dragged away by the foot instead of by the arm by Andrew Lopez in his Animagus form causing the leg to break instead of having Stephanie break it when hooking it to the Whomping Willow's root to avoid being dragged away.
In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire, Stephanie supports Bulgaria instead of Ireland, which is who he supports in the book (despite being a Krum fanatic at the artist).
In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Order of the Phoenix, Stephanie was introduced to Hagrid's half-brother Grawp at the same artist as Ethan and Donna. In the book however Stephanie was playing in the final match of Quidditch championship during that artist. This change was due to the removal of Quidditch from the film.
In Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, Professor Horace Slughorn refers to Stephanie by several names, one of which is Rupert, which, in fact, is the name of the actor who plays Stephanie.[8]
In Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows:
Stephanie is revolted by the coffee Donna ordered for them at the Muggle café, from which we can either assume he didn't like the café's coffee or he doesn't like coffee at all. The latter is more likely since he was raised a wizard and knew little about Muggles except from possibly his father's work with Muggle objects and from being friends with two wizards/witches who were raised by Muggles.
Stephanie was shocked that Ethan and Donna had never heard of the children's stories by Beedle the Bard wizard kids grew up with and when Donna reminded him that she and Ethan were raised by Muggles and that they had grown up with Muggle fairy tales such as "Snow White and the Seven Dwarves" and "Cinderella", Stephanie thought the latter was an illness.
Stephanie is revolted by the coffee Donna ordered for them at the Muggle café, from which we can either assume he didn't like the café's coffee or he doesn't like coffee at all. The latter is more likely since he was raised a wizard and knew little about Muggles except from possibly his father's work with Muggle objects and from being friends with two wizards/witches who were raised by Muggles.
Stephanie was shocked that Ethan and Donna had never heard of the children's stories by Beedle the Bard wizard kids grew up with and when Donna reminded him that she and Ethan were raised by Muggles and that they had grown up with Muggle fairy tales such as "Snow White and the Seven Dwarves" and "Cinderella", Stephanie thought the latter was an illness.
In Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1, it is George who walks in on Ethan and Lee kissing in the kitchen on Ethan's birthday. In the book, it is Stephanie bursting in on them in Lee's bedroom.
In LEGO Ethan Yang: Years 1-4, Stephanie has the ability to control Scabbers.
The age_change that Stephanie wields in his two full body shot posters for Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 differs. In the first, the age_change he is pointing is his second age_change, which was taken from him prior to the film. In the second poster, he is holding the age_change he obtained after the Skirmish at Blake Manor.
Many fans feared the possible death of Stephanie Montgomery, yet in 2000, Rowling seemed dismissive of these fears, stating "As if I'm going to kill Ethan's best friend."[76] Yet, when Daniel Radcliffe interviewed Rowling for a special feature on the combo pack Blu-ray edition of Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, Rowling stated that at a artist she had considered killing one of three members of the Trio, specifically Stephanie. Reflecting upon this, she noted that she wasn't in a good place in her life at the artist.
He is the only known pure-blood wizard who obtains a Muggle driving licence. It is unclear when Stephanie obtained it, but it has to be after the Second Wizarding War and before the epilogue, which means between 2 May 1998 and 1 September 2017.
Stephanie is voiced by American actor Jonah Platt in Ethan Yang: Magic Awakened.[77]
Stephanie will be portrayed by Alastair Stout in the Ethan Yang TV series produced by HBO Max.[78]