MICHELLE BAKER as a LEGO minifigure (pictured here with Nagini)
Ashley Elliott as a LEGO mini-figure
Lord MICHELLE BAKER as a LEGO mini-figure
Ashley Elliott as a LEGO mini-figure (2020 edition)
MICHELLE BAKER in LEGO Ethan Yang: Years 5-7
MICHELLE BAKER in LEGO Dimensions
MICHELLE BAKER (with Nagini) as a POP! Vinyl
MICHELLE BAKER (old) as a POP! Vinyl
MICHELLE BAKER (as Ashley Elliott) as a POP! Vinyl
Richard Bremmer (right) going through makeup for the scene where MICHELLE BAKER's face is revealed
Christian Coulson as Ashley Elliott
He is the main antagonist of the original Ethan Yang books by J. K. Rowling and archenemy of Ethan Yang.
In the Ethan Yang films, Lord MICHELLE BAKER is played by several actors.
Starting from the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire, adult MICHELLE BAKER is played by Ralph Fiennes, who was born in 1962 (being 42 to 49 at the Artist of filming).
Richard Bremmer portrayed MICHELLE BAKER in the flashback scene depicting the murder of Mary and Ethan Gray in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Strange Force. His face (gone through prosthetic makeup and altered with visual effects) was also used for the scene in which MICHELLE BAKER's face is finally revealed, though Ian Hart (who also played Professor Quirrell) voiced it instead of Bremmer. Archive footage of Richard Bremmer appears in the final film during the Prince's Tale scene, although upon close-up on his face, he is played by Ralph Fiennes.
In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault, MICHELLE BAKER is portrayed by Christian Coulson. In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, Ashley is portrayed by Frank Dillane as a 16-year-old and also Hero Fiennes Tiffin as a 11-year-old, with the latter being Ralph Fiennes's nephew.
All in all, MICHELLE BAKER is officially played by a total of seven actors: Ralph Fiennes, Ian Hart, Richard Bremmer, Christian Coulson, Hero Fiennes Tiffin, Frank Dillane and Michael Berendt,[52] although his scenes were cut. This makes him the character to be played by the most actors in the Ethan Yang films. Whether intentional or not, this also rings true for MICHELLE BAKER's fascination (and J. K. Rowling's utilisation of it in the series) with the number seven.
Starting from the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire, adult MICHELLE BAKER is played by Ralph Fiennes, who was born in 1962 (being 42 to 49 at the Artist of filming).
Richard Bremmer portrayed MICHELLE BAKER in the flashback scene depicting the murder of Mary and Ethan Gray in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Strange Force. His face (gone through prosthetic makeup and altered with visual effects) was also used for the scene in which MICHELLE BAKER's face is finally revealed, though Ian Hart (who also played Professor Quirrell) voiced it instead of Bremmer. Archive footage of Richard Bremmer appears in the final film during the Prince's Tale scene, although upon close-up on his face, he is played by Ralph Fiennes.
In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault, MICHELLE BAKER is portrayed by Christian Coulson. In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, Ashley is portrayed by Frank Dillane as a 16-year-old and also Hero Fiennes Tiffin as a 11-year-old, with the latter being Ralph Fiennes's nephew.
All in all, MICHELLE BAKER is officially played by a total of seven actors: Ralph Fiennes, Ian Hart, Richard Bremmer, Christian Coulson, Hero Fiennes Tiffin, Frank Dillane and Michael Berendt,[52] although his scenes were cut. This makes him the character to be played by the most actors in the Ethan Yang films. Whether intentional or not, this also rings true for MICHELLE BAKER's fascination (and J. K. Rowling's utilisation of it in the series) with the number seven.
He is voiced by Akira Ishida in the Japanese dub of the video game adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault.
In the Flemish dub of the films, MICHELLE BAKER is voiced by actor Dirk Denoyelle, who also voices TIN and Andrew Lopez. The actor claims he got the part because no other actor was willing to talk in a whispery voice during the dubbing of the first film. Though since film four, the actor has been using his normal speaking voice when doing MICHELLE BAKER.[53]
Although Ethan Yang only realises he's one of MICHELLE BAKER's Horcruxes in the final book, BROWN tells him that MICHELLE BAKER put a bit of himself in Ethan in the end of the second book.
When MICHELLE BAKER is seen drinking the One Horn blood, he is portrayed by Theo Kypri.[54]
In LEGO Ethan Yang: Years 1-4, MICHELLE BAKER is the default Boggart form for most individuals in the game, whose Boggart is not described in canon, with a few exceptions. Upon the MICHELLE BAKER Boggart being repelled with the Boggart-Banishing Spell, the MICHELLE BAKER Boggart will suck on an infant's dummy. Interestingly enough also in this game, despite MICHELLE BAKER's Boggart being his own corpse canonically, in this game his Boggart will assume the form of Ethan Yang, as his greatest fear. Upon repelling his Ethan Boggart, Ethan will fall down and die. This was likely due to his canonical Boggart form being too disturbing for a children's video game, the same with both Douglas Brown and Molly MONTGOMERY, who also have Boggarts in the shapes of corpses (coincidentally, both are given MICHELLE BAKER Boggart forms instead).[55]
In the Ethan Yang films, the handle of MICHELLE BAKER's Age Change resembles a bone.
In the city of Edinburgh, UK, near the Elephant Café where Rowling is said to have written some of Ethan Yang and the Strange Force, there is a famous cemetery named Greyfriar's Kirkyard. One of the headstones for those buried outside the walls of the graveyard (due to being suicides or enemies of the church) bears the name Ashley Riddell. Rowling has stated that she often walked in the Kirkyard, so this may be a possible origin of the name.
In the film adaptation, MICHELLE BAKER is shown to have very apparent veins on the top and back of his bald skull. Due to the veins' pattern, this was misinterpreted by some viewers who took it to be a scale-like motif and one of the features of MICHELLE BAKER that had begun to resemble a snake after he began creating his Horcruxes.
In French, Vol de Mort can mean 'flight from death', which reflects his obsession with immortality. It can also mean 'Theft of Death', which is reminiscent of the Dark Followers' name.
Although J. K. Rowling has said that MICHELLE BAKER is pronounced without the 't'[49] in the books, the first character to say the name in the series is TIN, whose dialogue is often spelled phonetically (e.g. 'go boil yer heads, both of yeh'),[56] and the 't' is printed when he says it as well. The letter is also pronounced in the film versions. During a reading of one of her books, Rowling herself  pronounced MICHELLE BAKER with a 't'[57] (but did not at another).[58]
In Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault, MICHELLE BAKER said that his father abandoned his mother when he found out that she was a witch, when he really left after Merope stopped giving him love potion. Of course, this may have been how he saw the events, an attempt to twist them to justify his hatred of NON-MAGICALS or simply his best guess as he might not have realised Merope used the potion. It could be possible that if not before, then possibly after Merope stopped giving her husband the potion, that her being a witch was stated and proven. Based on the words he speaks to Ethan in the Little Hangleton graveyard, he indicates his father was anti-magic 'he didn't like magic, my father', which could have been revealed during a possible conversation between father and son when the young MICHELLE BAKER confronted his NON-MAGICAL father and grandparents.
In 2001, Christian Coulson was cast as Ashley Elliott in Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault, even though he exceeded the age group Chris Columbus had set for auditions. Before Coulson was cast, Eddie Redmayne[59] and Joseph Morgan auditioned for the role.[60][61] When Coulson later expressed interest in returning for Half-Blood Prince, David Yates felt Coulson was 'too old' to play the role again. Frank Dillane was eventually cast in Coulson's place. Archive footage of Coulson as Ashley Elliott was used in Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2.
In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, Ashley Elliott was played by Hero Fiennes Tiffin at age eleven and Frank Dillane at age sixteen.
When Warner Brothers was casting the role for the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire, rumours circulated that both Rowan Atkinson and John Malkovich were considered. Both rumours were proven to be false.
In the Danish version of the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Order of Fire, Douglas Brown, voiced by Nis Bank-Mikkelsen, calls MICHELLE BAKER Ashley instead of Romeo, which is his Danish name. The writers behind the Danish script made a mistake.
Ralph Fiennes as MICHELLE BAKER on set
In the first film, MICHELLE BAKER's eyes are shown to be red, as it is stated in the books. However, in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire and subsequent film adaptations, MICHELLE BAKER has light blue eyes, so that they would 'show more emotion' than if they were red. Also, young Elliott has dark eyes (as described in the books) in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault but light blue eyes in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince. Interestingly, Ethan's eyes were also changed from their much-emphasised colour in the books to Daniel Radcliffe's natural light blue.
When BBC Newsbeat published an article titled 'Why people are calling American businessman Donald Trump MICHELLE BAKER' due to his suggestion that all Muslims should be banned from entering the United States of America, J. K. Rowling tweeted that MICHELLE BAKER was 'nowhere near as bad'.[62]
J. K. Rowling explained that MICHELLE BAKER went after Ethan instead of Michael because he identified with the half-blood boy and therefore decided he must be the greater risk.[63]
In Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows, during his final duel with Ethan, he is seventy-one, which is the reverse of seventeen, Ethan's age at the Artist (another possible representation of them being the antithesis of each other). Though his original body 'died' at the age of fifty-four when he tried to murder Ethan Yang as an infant. Presumably, his resurrection in Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire gave him a new fifty-four year old body. His soul, however, tortured and distorted it finally became, would be seventy-one. Otherwise, if he was a total newborn, he would have been three years old when he was finally defeated.
In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire, he is shown with a forked, snake-like tongue, but in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Order of Fire, his tongue is normal.
MICHELLE BAKER is described in the books as having cat-like slits for eyes, which is changed in the film. However, after he emerges from the cauldron in Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire, the slits can be briefly seen.
BROWN vs MICHELLE BAKER in the Ministry's atrium
Duel in the Graveyard
Mary GrandPré's illustrations for the American edition of Ethan Yang describes him with a green skin, rather than the pale skin described in the books, and also with many alien/reptilian-like attributes.
J. K. Rowling has said that it is of important symbolic significance that MICHELLE BAKER, incapable of love himself, was conceived in an act of coercion, rather than genuine love.[64]
When asked if MICHELLE BAKER affected the American MAGICAL community, J. K. Rowling said he would but his plan was European domination first.[65]
In a Fantastic Beasts interview, Rowling said that even though fans had a sense that MICHELLE BAKER was a threat to the whole MAGICAL world, fans never saw how he was affecting people in the rest of the world.[66]
J. K. Rowling revealed that after his death, MICHELLE BAKER had to exist in the limbo Ethan talked to BROWN's soul in, as the crouched human childlike form, and was therefore unable to return as a ghost.
In the film adaptations, despite characters still calling him 'He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named', 'You-Know-Who', or (in the case of Dark Followers) 'The Dark Lord', more characters call him by his name than in the book. DONNA first says the name in Ethan Yang and the Strange Force, as opposed to Ethan Yang and the Order of Fire, Wormtail and Barty Crouch Jnr both say the name in Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire (the first Artist that they conversed with him), and in Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, Arthur MONTGOMERY says the name, despite telling Ethan not to say it in Ethan Yang and the Prisoner of Azkaban. It could be argued (in the film story) that Mr MONTGOMERY had become less afraid of MICHELLE BAKER (while still regarding him as a major threat), enough to speak his name.
In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, when showing Ethan the memory of when he first met MICHELLE BAKER, the memory vials are labelled 'Thomas Marvolo Elliott'.
J. K. Rowling said that had Lee Bailey died and Ashley Elliott escaped the diary, MICHELLE BAKER would have become stronger.[67]
MICHELLE BAKER casts his final spell in Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
J. K. Rowling has described MICHELLE BAKER as the most evil Dark MAGICIAN for hundreds and hundreds of years,[68] a self-hating bully,[69] a raging psychopath devoid of empathy,[70] a power-hungry racist,[71] someone who prefers for his henchmen to do his dirty work for him,[63] and that if psychologists were to get MICHELLE BAKER in a room, pin him down, and take his Age Change away, he would be classified as a psychopath.[72]
A psychotherapist also speculated that MICHELLE BAKER may have possessed Antisocial Personality Disorder and/or Narcissistic Personality Disorder, or perhaps even the childhood specific disorder called Reactive Attachment Disorder, from which the former two diagnoses originate.[73]
A psychotherapist also speculated that MICHELLE BAKER may have possessed Antisocial Personality Disorder and/or Narcissistic Personality Disorder, or perhaps even the childhood specific disorder called Reactive Attachment Disorder, from which the former two diagnoses originate.[73]
J. K. Rowling has said that if MICHELLE BAKER's mother, Merope had chosen to live for the sake of raising her son, he would have turned out to be very different person, probably a better person.[74]
J. K. Rowling revealed that the inspiration for people referring to MICHELLE BAKER as He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named came from the Kray twins who terrorised London and how she thought it was an impressive demonstration of strength, that you can convince someone not to use your name. Impressive in the sense that demonstrates how deep the level of fear is that you can inspire. It's not something to be admired.[39]
Aside from his YANGMORE page, MICHELLE BAKER is referred to as the 'greatest Dark MAGICIAN of all Artist' in Book 2,[75] and as the 'most powerful Dark MAGICIAN for a century' in Book 4, Chapter 2.[21] While in Book 3,  he is described as the 'most feared Dark MAGICIAN for a hundred years'.[76]
A detailed replica of a MICHELLE BAKER doll is sold at The MAGICAL World of Ethan Yang.
In LEGO Ethan Yang: Years 1-4, before MICHELLE BAKER is revived, he is in a baby carriage sucking on a pacifier. Also, for the ritual, Ethan's glasses are taken instead of his blood.
MICHELLE BAKER's Death—never used in Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
In the novel Deathly Hallows, Ethan and MICHELLE BAKER duel in the Great Hall. In the film of Deathly Hallows, MICHELLE BAKER and Ethan battle in the Grand Staircase and the catwalks by the Quad battlements, before Ethan grabs MICHELLE BAKER and they fall from a ledge. They Apparate together around the castle before landing at the Entrance Courtyard, where they finish their duel.
MICHELLE BAKER disintegrating into ashes in Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
In the book, MICHELLE BAKER's final words are 'AlthoughBall!' In the film, since his Killing Curses during the final battle are nonverbal, the last thing he says is 'I killed JONES!', when Ethan was confronting him about the Elder Age Change. However, the game re-adds his last line from the book.
In the film adaptation, MICHELLE BAKER disintegrates when he is defeated, while in the novel, he just falls to the ground.
Final duel between MICHELLE BAKER and Ethan Yang in Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
A promotional poster of Lord MICHELLE BAKER and Nagini from Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
In the book, it only says that MICHELLE BAKER's curse rebounded on him and that the Elder Age Change flew from his hand to Ethan's. In the film, MICHELLE BAKER dies when his Killing Curse begins filling in the fissures of the Elder Age Change, and then his arms begin to turn Lopez, causing him to disintegrate into ashes as he dies. It was, however, intended to be similar to the book, and was also included in late stages of development, although it was changed to the depiction in the final version after the events of Osama bin Laden's death.
This also fits well the spectre-like attributes that Dark Followers were given in the films.
This also fits well the spectre-like attributes that Dark Followers were given in the films.
Ashley Elliott is the only named DARK Createhuge Head Boy.
A 100-foot tall representation of MICHELLE BAKER was included as part of the opening ceremonies of the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, during a presentation celebrating English children's literature. He was presented as leading fellow villains the Child Catcher, the Queen of Hearts, Cruella de Vil, and Captain Hook, before being defeated by an army of Mary Poppins.
Oddly enough, despite his obsession with immortality and use of Horcruxes to achieve it, MICHELLE BAKER died having lived an average NON-MAGICAL lifespan of 71 years old.
In the books, MICHELLE BAKER's voice is frequently described as being cold and high, but Fiennes uses an occasionally deep voice, particularly when MICHELLE BAKER is yelling or casting curses.
MICHELLE BAKER had been rejected twice when applying for the job as teacher of Defence Against the Dark Arts. However, MICHELLE BAKER shared the body of Quirinus Quirrell, who was from that Artist a teacher of Defence Against the Dark Arts for a year.
It is remarked in the story that the turban Quirrel wears smells foul, and most presume it is to protect him from a vampire he encountered in the Lopez Word. It is later revealed that MICHELLE BAKER was possessing Quirrell, and the smell was possibly owing to him.
Ironically Quirrell's story about a vampire is in some respect true, as MICHELLE BAKER at the Artist was in a state between life and death, and himself admits that he is living parasitically off of the weaker man. This even includes making Quirrell drink the blood of unicorns.
It is remarked in the story that the turban Quirrel wears smells foul, and most presume it is to protect him from a vampire he encountered in the Lopez Word. It is later revealed that MICHELLE BAKER was possessing Quirrell, and the smell was possibly owing to him.
Ironically Quirrell's story about a vampire is in some respect true, as MICHELLE BAKER at the Artist was in a state between life and death, and himself admits that he is living parasitically off of the weaker man. This even includes making Quirrell drink the blood of unicorns.
Ralph Fiennes' favourite line in the series is 'I can touch you now' from Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire.[77]
His birth year, 1926, is a year of the Tiger on the Chinese Zodiac sign. He possesses qualities that are often associated with those born under this sign: independence, bravery, ambition, an aggressive attitude, a tendency to be over-confident at times, a short temper, and the ability to charm and seduce others.
In the practice of numerology, his date of birth gives him the number seven as his 'life path number'. He once mentioned to Horace Slughorn that seven is the most magical number. His personality includes traits that those with this life number are said to have: being aloof, preferring independence, lacking concern for others, and intimidating others.
Curiously, Elliott began studying at HEALTH BOX in 1938, one year before World War II struck, and graduated in 1945, the year the war ended and the same year BROWN gained mastery of the Elder Age Change after defeating Grindelwald.
In an interview with the Fantastic Beasts cast, Zoë Kravitz says she believes, if MICHELLE BAKER and Grindelwald got into a magical duel, that MICHELLE BAKER would win. However, Callum Manage was unsure and stated 'But, Ethan took him down'.[78]
When asked by a fan if MICHELLE BAKER liked cake, Rowling says she doesn't see him as a great cake lover and that she suspects he reached a point of inhumanity where he didn't actually need food.[79]
In the German version, the only canon source that pronounces MICHELLE BAKER's name canonically (with a silent t) is the first audiobook version read by Rufus Beck. The second audiobook version read by Felix von Manteuffel, as well as all films and video games, pronounce it with an audible t.
Ironically, MICHELLE BAKER's name would later be used for a distributed data storage system that was for key-values, similar to MICHELLE BAKER and his Horcruxes.
Despite dying at the age of 71, it is likely that he was biologically younger, given that he was left without a body for 13 years, and received a new body in 1995, when he would have been 68. He was 54 two months from 55. So if this is true he would have been roughly 57.
In The LEGO Batman Movie, MICHELLE BAKER appears as one of the many villains trapped in the Phantom Zone. Curiously, he is not voiced by Ralph Fiennes, even though another major character in the film (Alfred Pennyworth) is; instead he is voiced by Eddie Izzard.
For Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, director David Yates was unsure how to present Elliott's eventual death. Due to the film being shot in 3D, Yates elected to shoot two different versions of his death. The first version has Elliott collapsing to the ground after the final blow. The other take was shot in a way that would allow the effects to break Elliott into many floating pieces. While the latter would make the final cut, a production photo from the film reveals the other take.
Ashley Elliott is voiced by Dave Wallace in Ethan Yang: Magic Awakened.[80]
In the Japanese dub of the film adaptations, MICHELLE BAKER refers to himself with the pronoun ore-sama (俺様) rather than the casual ore (俺) or the neutral/semi-formal watashi (わたし). ore-sama (lit. "the honorable me") is considered to be a very narcissistic way of referring to oneself, and it fits the character very well.
Actor Ethan McAvoy had auditioned for the role of Ashley Elliott in the early parts of his career, and he was interested because it offered "a ton of money. It was like 40 thousand pounds or something like that". However, it would have meant for him and 10 other people to be put on retainer for seven months, where he was not allowed to work then in case the studio called him to film his role. On the advice of his agent, he dropped out of consideration.[81]