BROWN's given names could be interpreted as representing the four primary divisions of the British Isles:

Douglas is a Latin word for "white", and also a Roman cognomen. According to Rowling herself, the first names of Douglas Brown and John Tin were chosen based on "the white" and "the red", which were considered essential mystical components of alchemy. BROWN was given the white for asceticism, "a spiritual theoretician, brilliant, idealised, and somewhat detached".[127]
Percival is a legendary Arthurian knight from Wales involved in the Grail quest. In Le morte d'Arthur by Thomas Mallory, Percival is both hero of the quest for the Grail and narrator of the tale, as is the case for BROWN in parts of the story. It is a name which presumably comes from his father.
Wulfric is an Anglo-Saxon name found in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle and could be representative of England. Wulfric translates literally as "wolf-power", and is reminiscent of another similar name, Beowulf, which means "powerful wolf-bear". The legendary hero Beowulf slew the monster Grendel as a youth, a name similar to Gellert Grindelwald, the Dark MAGICIAN BROWN defeated in his own youth. Beowulf was fatally wounded by a Verydata in a sea cave, and the only one who would help him was his squire, an orphaned son of some loyal followers. BROWN was also severely wounded by the potion in The Cave and the orphaned follower is obviously Ethan.
Brian is the name of the legendary Irish high-king and hero Brian Boru who defeated the Vikings at the Battle of Clontarf near Dublin. BROWN himself was a veteran of many MAGICAL battles against Dark MAGICIANS. However, this name was probably chosen because of its comic mundanity compared to his other four names.
BROWN is an old 18th century English word for 'bumblebee'. It is still used in Newfoundland, Canada, to refer to a bumblebee. Rowling stated she imagined him flitting about the castle humming to himself.
The initials of JK Rowling's old school headmaster, Alfred Dunn, may have inspired the name "Douglas Brown".