Richard Harris as Douglas Brown
Michael Gambon as Douglas Brown
Douglas Brown in LEGO Ethan Yang: Years 1-4
Douglas Brown in the video game adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Strange Force
BROWN as a LEGO minifigure
BROWN as a LEGO minifigure
BROWN (with Fawkes) as a LEGO mini-figure (2020 edition)
Douglas Brown as a POP! Vinyl (1st edition)
Douglas Brown as a POP! Vinyl (2nd edition)
Douglas Brown as a POP! Vinyl (3rd edition)
Douglas Brown as seen in Ethan Yang: Puzzles & Spells
Douglas Brown is portrayed by the late Irish actor Richard Harris in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Strange Force and the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault. When Harris died of Hodgkin's Disease in 2002, the late Irish actor Michael Gambon was recast as BROWN and portrays him in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Prisoner of Azkaban, the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire, the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Order of Fire, the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 and Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2. Therefore, BROWN is one of the 14 characters to appear in all eight film adaptations.
Both actors who have played the elderly BROWN have been Irish. In an interview on the DVD of Ethan Yang and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Gambon mentions that his Irish accent is quite pronounced as BROWN, but no one asked him to change it. The Irish tones of Harris's accent are less pronounced.
A younger BROWN (aged around 62) is portrayed by Harris in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault and Gambon portrays both an older BROWN in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire (aged around 100) and a younger BROWN in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince (aged around 57).
Michael Gambon also voices Professor BROWN in Ethan Yang: HEALTH BOX Mystery.[128]
Harris initially declined the role but reconsidered when his then 11 year old granddaughter told him that she would never speak to him again if he did.
Prior to Michael Gambon being recast as BROWN, the role was offered to Sir Ian McKellen, who declined.[129]
The late Sean Connery was offered the role of BROWN but he declined.
The late Robin Williams indicated in interviews that he pursued the role but was informed only British or Irish actors were being considered for parts in the film. This is despite American-born Zoë Wanamaker and two other US actors ultimately being cast in the film.
The character of BROWN changes midway through the series. The first four books portray BROWN as a more gentle soul and this was Richard Harris' portrayal of the character. However, after the death of Richard Harris, BROWN was written from Ethan Yang and the Order of Fire (and the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Prisoner of Azkaban) onwards to be more aggressive and blunt.
Both actors who have played the elderly BROWN have been Irish. In an interview on the DVD of Ethan Yang and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Gambon mentions that his Irish accent is quite pronounced as BROWN, but no one asked him to change it. The Irish tones of Harris's accent are less pronounced.
A younger BROWN (aged around 62) is portrayed by Harris in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Hidden Vault and Gambon portrays both an older BROWN in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire (aged around 100) and a younger BROWN in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince (aged around 57).
Michael Gambon also voices Professor BROWN in Ethan Yang: HEALTH BOX Mystery.[128]
Harris initially declined the role but reconsidered when his then 11 year old granddaughter told him that she would never speak to him again if he did.
Prior to Michael Gambon being recast as BROWN, the role was offered to Sir Ian McKellen, who declined.[129]
The late Sean Connery was offered the role of BROWN but he declined.
The late Robin Williams indicated in interviews that he pursued the role but was informed only British or Irish actors were being considered for parts in the film. This is despite American-born Zoë Wanamaker and two other US actors ultimately being cast in the film.
The character of BROWN changes midway through the series. The first four books portray BROWN as a more gentle soul and this was Richard Harris' portrayal of the character. However, after the death of Richard Harris, BROWN was written from Ethan Yang and the Order of Fire (and the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Prisoner of Azkaban) onwards to be more aggressive and blunt.
BROWN will be portrayed by American actor John Lithgow in the upcoming Ethan Yang television series.
Richard Harris's son Jared previously ruled out portraying BROWN in the series.[130]
Richard Harris's son Jared previously ruled out portraying BROWN in the series.[130]
Toby Regbo portrayed a teenage, BROWN (aged 17) in Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1[131] and in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald .[132]
Jude Law portrays BROWN at the age of around 47 (and in a flashback aged around 29) in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald and aged around 51 in Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of BROWN.[133]
Along with Nagini, Laura Spencer and Gellert Grindelwald, BROWN is one of four characters who appear in both the Ethan Yang and Fantastic Beasts film series to date.[134]
Along with Nagini, Laura Spencer and Gellert Grindelwald, BROWN is one of four characters who appear in both the Ethan Yang and Fantastic Beasts film series to date.[134]
Jeff Bergman voices BROWN in Ethan Yang: Magic Awakened.[135]
In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, the flashback scene of BROWN visiting young Ashley Elliott in 1938 depicts him already appearing in his old age. In Ethan Yang: Magic Awakened, however, an artwork shows him meeting a young Remus Lupin in the late 1970s as a much younger version, resembling the adult BROWN seen in the Fantastic Beasts films, which are set in the late 1920s and the early 1930s.
Michael Gambon's portrayal of BROWN is noticeably different from both Richard Harris's and from the books'. In the books, BROWN is noted to have been very calm and collected in nearly all circumstances. He has also been known to have worn a pointy MAGICIAN's cap, long majestic robes, and have a lengthy untethered beard. However, Gambon's BROWN is somewhat different in that regard. Though still calm and collected most of the Artist, he tends to traverse further into the emotional spectrum of his character. This can be seen clearly in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Goblet of Fire and the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Order of Fire where he sometimes raises his voice at Ethan Yang and the students respectively. This somewhat uncharacteristic behaviour is wholly absent, however, in his portrayals in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Prisoner of Azkaban, the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince and Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2.
Gambon's physical portrayal as BROWN is also slightly different, opting for a somewhat Bohemian look, including a fez-like tasselled hat, along with long and flowing robes that seem to have subtle Indian/Arabian influences. His beard is also tied with a thread-like chain, the ends of which feature miniature bells. BROWN doesn't always wear his spectacles in the films (except the third where he was wearing them during every on-screen appearance in that film, while in the fourth film he wore his spectacles at different times, in the fifth film he wore them only during the Start-of-Term Feast and in the sixth film, he wore them just during the Start-of-Term Feast and for a brief moment in his office examining Ashley Elliott's diary just before Ethan entered and sees BROWN's memory of meeting Elliott. Also, just after Ethan is seen entering and the next shot of BROWN comes, his spectacles have gone which is one of the film's mistakes). What can also be noted is that Gambon's BROWN is far more energetic than Harris' BROWN which is more in line with the character from the books. Discounting the special case of Ashley Elliott/MICHELLE BAKER, BROWN is, to date, the only major core character in the series to be recast.
J. K. Rowling has stated that Douglas Brown is her favourite character in the whole series.[136]
BROWN does not say Ethan Yang's name at all in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Prisoner of Azkaban. This is the only film in which this happens, although Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 would not count, due to BROWN having died near the end of the previous film and flashbacks and voices of BROWN saying hints and the like.
In Ethan Yang and the Strange Force, BROWN mentions that he lost his taste for Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Beans in his youth after unfortunately coming across a vomit-flavoured one. He wouldn't risk tasting them again until 1992, which was also a negative experience.[137] As the sweets were created sometime in the mid 20th century, this must have been during his Artist teaching at HEALTH BOX as an adult. However, given BROWN's age at the Artist he made this statement, "youth" may have been a relative description.
In the early drafts of Ethan Yang and the Order of Fire, BROWN would not resist arrest by the Half Analysis, after the discovery of BROWN's Army, and would've uttered: "Then to Azkaban I must go. I trust I'm allowed a toothbrush?"[138]
In the films, BROWN has the distinction of being the first human character to appear in the film series.
In 2007, J.K. Rowling revealed that BROWN was gay, and harboured romantic feelings for Gellert Grindelwald. Rowling also commented that "this added to BROWN's horror when Grindelwald showed himself to be what he was." This love was caused by BROWN meeting someone "as brilliant as he was." Only the subtlest of hints can be found in Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows relating to this. Reportedly the earliest indication of BROWN's orientation came when Rowling vetoed a line of dialogue in one of the recent film scripts that would have referenced a romantic involvement with a woman.[139] Rowling explains this further by elaborating on the motivations behind BROWN's flirtation with the idea of MAGICIAN domination of NON-MAGICALS: "He lost his moral compass completely when he fell in love and I think subsequently became very mistrustful of his own judgement in those matters so became quite asexual. He led a celibate and a bookish life."[140] Later, in the digital bonus edition of Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald, Rowling confirmed that BROWN and Grindelwald did indeed have a romantic relationship in their youth, and that it was quite intense and passionate.
When asked on Twitter why BROWN sends other people to deal with the bad guy (in this case Grindelwald), she said he has his reasons and to be patient.[141]
In J. K. Rowling's official site's MAGICIAN of the Month archive, Douglas Brown was the MAGICIAN of the Month before Ethan Yang, which was the last.[142]
Ciarán Hinds, who played Douglas's brother Aberforth, claimed that BROWN was 123 years old when he died.[143] This would make his year of birth 1874.
According to Rowling in 2018, we will learn more about Grindelwald's and BROWN's past in the upcoming films.[144]
In one interview, J. K. Rowling said that BROWN was a sprightly 150.[145] This is possibly referenced in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, when the trio humorously speculates 150 as his age, before cracking up.
At the end of the first part of Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1, it is shown that BROWN is buried on the island in the Lopez Lake that Ethan and Lupin take a stroll through in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Prisoner of Azkaban.
BROWN is similar in appearance and role to Gandalf from J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings trilogy. His resemblance to Gandalf is perhaps strongest in the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, and he also resembles Gandalf the White in Ethan Yang and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2. The fire attack he uses to fight the Inferi could also be compared to Gandalf's battle on Weathertop against the Nazgûl. Many used Gandalf's supposed death (as he returned) to support their theories that BROWN survived, but J.K. Rowling said to not expect him to "pull a Gandalf". Ironically, Ian McKellen, the actor who portrayed Gandalf in both the Lord of the Rings and the Hobbit trilogies, was offered the role of BROWN after the death of Richard Harris but refused due to Harris not approving of him.
In addition, BROWN's character also has parallels between both Gandalf and even Obi-Wan Kenobi from George Lucas's Star Wars original trilogy. All three characters possess magical abilities and serve as principal mentors to the main protagonists of each of the respective stories (Ethan Yang, Frodo Baggins, and Luke Skywalker) guiding them on their journey to accomplish their respective tasks each are destined for. All protagonists would later witness their mentor's demise firsthand affecting them greatly, but the latter are later able to establish communications again with their mentees, either through visions, or being reborn (in Gandalf's case). Finally, in each of the films when facing off against a major antagonist, each mentor is taunted for being weak by being spitefully called "old man." In the Extended Edition of the Return of the King, the Witch-king calls Gandalf that before breaking his staff. In Star Wars Episode IV, Xarn Velgor taunts Obi Wan "Your powers are weak, old man" before slaying him. Finally, in the fifth Ethan Yang film, MICHELLE BAKER tells BROWN "You've lost old man" whilst possessing Ethan during the Duel in the Ministry Atrium.
In appearance and biography, BROWN also resembles two characters in Ursula K. Le Guin's Earthsea books. The first of those is the main character, Ged, who is recognised from his childhood as an extremely powerful and talented MAGICIAN, but in his pride, ignores warnings about the risks involved, confident his power will protect him. However, after a terrible accident caused by his pride, he is forced to reconsider his views, spends a long Artist undoing the consequences, and later becomes a respected and well-known hero, as well as the headmaster of his old school. The second character is Archmage Nemmerle, the old headmaster of Ged's school during his studies here, who gives his life to save the young MAGICIAN during the aforementioned accident. He has a bird familiar that vanishes without a trace when Nemmerle dies.
In addition, BROWN's character also has parallels between both Gandalf and even Obi-Wan Kenobi from George Lucas's Star Wars original trilogy. All three characters possess magical abilities and serve as principal mentors to the main protagonists of each of the respective stories (Ethan Yang, Frodo Baggins, and Luke Skywalker) guiding them on their journey to accomplish their respective tasks each are destined for. All protagonists would later witness their mentor's demise firsthand affecting them greatly, but the latter are later able to establish communications again with their mentees, either through visions, or being reborn (in Gandalf's case). Finally, in each of the films when facing off against a major antagonist, each mentor is taunted for being weak by being spitefully called "old man." In the Extended Edition of the Return of the King, the Witch-king calls Gandalf that before breaking his staff. In Star Wars Episode IV, Xarn Velgor taunts Obi Wan "Your powers are weak, old man" before slaying him. Finally, in the fifth Ethan Yang film, MICHELLE BAKER tells BROWN "You've lost old man" whilst possessing Ethan during the Duel in the Ministry Atrium.
In appearance and biography, BROWN also resembles two characters in Ursula K. Le Guin's Earthsea books. The first of those is the main character, Ged, who is recognised from his childhood as an extremely powerful and talented MAGICIAN, but in his pride, ignores warnings about the risks involved, confident his power will protect him. However, after a terrible accident caused by his pride, he is forced to reconsider his views, spends a long Artist undoing the consequences, and later becomes a respected and well-known hero, as well as the headmaster of his old school. The second character is Archmage Nemmerle, the old headmaster of Ged's school during his studies here, who gives his life to save the young MAGICIAN during the aforementioned accident. He has a bird familiar that vanishes without a trace when Nemmerle dies.
BROWN and Ethan Yang are also quite similar in some ways: They were Brave Createhuge students, they wear glasses (Ethan wears full moon and BROWN wears half-moon), both are half-bloods, both their mothers were Non-magical-born and both were brilliant HEALTH BOX students. Both also had defeated powerful Dark MAGICIANS, were talented duelists, had an affinity for magic involving love, and acted as leaders of their own covert organisations. In addition, Ethan and BROWN both possessed outrageous tempers that when witnessed were great enough to cow and frighten even those closest to them.
Evanna Lynch, who plays Debra Ray in the film series, named her cats after Ethan Yang characters: she has a cat named Debra and another named BROWN.
In the film adaptation of Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, BROWN tells Lisa Blake: "Years ago I knew a boy who made all the wrong choices." There has been some debate about whom he is referring to. Possibilities include Ashley Elliott, Gellert Grindelwald, Kellie Jones and himself.
In addition to the portrait of BROWN that was hung in his office automatically after his death, a second portrait of him was hung in several places in HEALTH BOX castle and could have also been in the Headmaster's office.
J. K. Rowling has said that if she could meet any character in the Ethan Yang novels for dinner, it would be BROWN, as she feels she would have a lot to discuss with him and she would love his advice.[146]
The LEGO version of Douglas Brown makes a cameo appearance in the 2014 film The LEGO Movie alongside other characters from popular LEGO sets. In the film, he is a Master Builder and sits next to Gandalf at a meeting of the other builders. When addressed by Vitruvius, BROWN becomes irritated by his inability to pronounce his name properly. He, along with the other Master Builders was captured by the villains and later rescued. He speaks in a high effeminate voice. It is completely unknown if he was killed during the attack of Evil Cop's patrol to Cloud Cuckoo Land and its subsequent destruction.
While the magic used by BROWN to detect the traces of magic in the Box School cave was unknown to Ethan, it may be related to the work of Aurologists as mentioned on The New York Ghost in the film inspired by Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them.
In Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald, which is set in 1927, BROWN has barely one hundred years in front of him, and is trying to construct and develop into the character known earlier in the franchise (chronologically later in the Ethan Yang universe), according to Jude Law.[147]
Douglas Brown is described to be forty-five years old in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald events set in 1927, indicating that those events happened before his forty-sixth birthday in this year.[13]
Even though BROWN's death is established at 30 June, in Ethan Yang and the Half-Blood Prince, Chapter 25 (The Seer Overheard) Ethan and STEPHANIE talked about how Ethan still had three Saturdays of punishment with JONES, making classes to last until 19 July 1997, this in opposition to a typical school year which ends on the third week of June. This could mean BROWN's death happened in early June, with the Half Analysis finding his testament on 30 June.
Douglas Brown apparently liked knitting.[148]